B 485
Extraordinary
Federal Republic of Nigeria
Official Gazette
No. 99 Lagos - 31st  May, 2023 Vol. 110
Government Notice  No. 60
The following is published as supplement to this Gazette :
S.I. No. Short Title Page
25 Central Bank of Nigeria (Customer Due Diligence) Regulations, 2023    .. B487-520
Printed and Published by The Federal Government Printer, Lagos, Nigeria
FGP 81/52023/00
Annual Subscription from 1st January, 2023 is Local : N50,000.00 Overseas : N65,000.00 [Surface Mail]
N80,000.00 [Second Class Air Mail]. Present issue N3,500 per copy. Subscribers who wish to obtain Gazette
after 1st January should apply to the Federal Government Printer, Lagos for amended Subscriptions.B 486B 487
BANKS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
ACT NO. 5, 2020
CENTRAL BANK OF NIGERIA (CUSTOMER DUE DILIGENCE)
REGULATIONS, 2023
ARRANGEMENT OF REGULATIONS
Regulation
PART I — OBJECTIVES AND APPLICATION
1. Objectives
2. Scope
3. Application
PART II — CUSTOMER DUE DILIGENCE
4. Prohibition of opening anonymous accounts
5. Customer due diligence measures
6. Customer identification
7. Verification of customer identity
8. Identification and verification of signatories, directors, and beneficial
owners of legal persons and legal arrangements
9. Authority of third party
10. Nature and purpose of business
11. Understanding sources of funds
12. Ongoing due diligence
13. Application of CDD to existing customers
14. Electronic KYC
15. Risk-based approach to CDD
16. Tiered know-your-customer
17. Enhanced CDD
18. Reliance on identification and verification already performed
19. Inability to undertake CDD
20. Reliance on third party
21. Timing of verification
22. Tipping off
23. Record keeping
PART III — ADDITIONAL MEASURES
24. Additional measures for specific customers and businesses
25. External and non-resident non-Nigerian accountsB 488
26. Non- resident Nigerians
27. Resident non-Nigerians
28. Correspondent banking relationship
29. Trusts
30. Blind trust
31. Nominee directors and nominee shareholders
32. Refugees or asylum seekers
33. Foreign students
34. Minors
35. Non-face-to-face customers identification
36. Introductions from authorized financial intermediaries
37. Foreign intermediaries
38. Corporate group introduction
39. Acquisition of a financial institution and business
40. Domiciliary account
41. Safe custody and safety deposit boxes
42. Retirement benefit programme
43. Non-Profit Organizations
44. Professional intermediary
45. Agency relationship
PART IV — MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
46. Sanctions for non-compliance
47. Amendments or revocation of these Regulations
48. Interpretation
49. CitationB 489
S. I. No. 25 of 2023
BANKS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
ACT NO. 5, 2020
CENTRAL BANK OF NIGERIA (CUSTOMER DUE DILIGENCE)
REGULATIONS, 2023
[31st Day of  May, 2023] Commence-
ment
In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Section 66 of the Banks and
Other Financial Institutions Act, 2020 and all other powers enabling me in that
behalf, I, GODWIN I. EMEFIELE, the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria make the
following Regulations —
PART I — OBJECTIVES AND APPLICATION
1. The objectives of these Regulations are to — Objectives
(a) provide additional customer due diligence measures  for financial
institutions under the regulatory purview of the Central Bank of Nigeria
to further their compliance with relevant provisions of the Money
Laundering (Prevention and Prohibition) Act (MLPPA), 2022, Terrorism
(Prevention and Prohibition) Act (TPPA), 2022,  Central Bank of Nigeria
(Anti-Money Laundering, Combating the Financing of Terrorism and
Countering Proliferation Financing of Weapons of Mass Destruction in
Financial Institutions) Regulations, 2022 (CBN AML, CFT and CPF
Regulations)  and international best practices ; and
(b)  enable the CBN enforce compliance with customer due diligence
measures in line with the CBN AML, CFT and CPF Regulations.
2. These Regulations —
Scope
(a) complement the relevant provisions of the CBN AML, CFT and CPF
Regulations on customer due diligence measures and additional customer
due diligence measures for specific customers and activities ; and
(b) shall be read in conjunction with the CBN AML, CFT and CPF
Regulations.
3. These Regulations shall apply to all Financial Institutions (FIs) under Application
the regulatory purview of the Central Bank of Nigeria.
PART II — CUSTOMER DUE DILIGENCE
4. FIs shall not establish or keep anonymous accounts, numbered Prohibition
of opening
accounts or accounts in fictitious names.
anonymous
accountsB 490
5.—(1) FIs shall undertake CDD measures when—
Customer
Due
(a)  establishing business relationships ;
Diligence
(b) carrying out occasional transactions above the applicable and
measures
designated threshold of  US$1,000 or its equivalent in other currencies or
as may be determined by the CBN from time to time, including where the
transaction is carried out in a single or several transactions or operations
that appear to be linked ;
(c)  carrying out occasional transactions that are wire transfers, including
cross-border and domestic transfers between FIs and when credit or debit
cards are used as a payment method to effect money transfer ;
(d) there are doubts as to the veracity or adequacy of previously obtained
customer identification data ; or
(e)  there is a suspicion of ML, TF and PF regardless of any exemptions
or any other thresholds referred to in these Regulations or the CBN AML,
CFT and CPF Regulations.
(2)  FIs shall establish internal processes and procedures for conducting
CDD measures for all potential and existing customers, including occasional
customers.
(3)  CDD measures shall include —
(a)  customer identification and verification of identity ;
(b)   identification and verification of identity of beneficial owners (BOs) ;
(c)  understanding nature and purpose of business ;
(d)  understanding the sources of funds ; and
(e)  conducting ongoing due diligence on the business relationship and
monitoring for suspicious activities.
6. FIs shall identify their customer (whether permanent or occasional,
Customer
identification
and whether natural or legal persons or legal arrangements) and obtain the
following information —
(a)  for Individuals —
(i)  legal name and any other names used (such as maiden name),
(ii)  permanent address (full physical address),
(iii)  residential address (where the customer can be located),
(iv)  telephone number, e-mail address and social media handle,
(v)  date and place of birth,
(vi)  Bank Verification Number (BVN),
(vii)  Tax Identification Number (TIN),
(viii)  nationality,
(ix)  occupation, public position held and name of employer,B 491
(x)  an official personal identification number or other unique identifier
contained in an unexpired document issued by a government agency,
that bears a name, photograph and signature of the customer such as a
passport,  national identification card, residence permit, social security
records or drivers’ license,
(xi)  type of account and nature of the banking relationship, and
(xii)  signature, and
(xiii)  politically exposed persons (PEPs) status ;
(b)  for legal persons and legal arrangements —
(i)  name of institution,
(ii)  mailing address,
(iii)  e-mail and social media address,
(iv)  phone numbers,
(v)  registration number,
(vi)  registered address,
(vii)  business address,
(viii)  valid identification, such as tax identification number,
(ix)  nature and purpose of business or activities,
(x)  certified true copy of documentary evidence confirming legal
existence such as certificate of incorporation,
(xi)  certified true copy of memorandum and articles of association or
other similar documents,
(xii)  certified true copy of the list of directors and shareholders or
similar documents,
(xiii)  board resolution to open the account,
(xiv)  identification of those who have authority to operate the account,
(xv)  legal documents indicating persons exercising control or significant
influence over the legal persons and legal arrangement’s assets,
(xvi)  valid means of identification of persons mentioned in
subparagraph (xv) of this paragraph,
(xvii)  names and identification documents of the relevant persons
having a senior management position in the legal persons and legal
arrangements, and
(xviii)  the original documents referred to in subparagraphs (x) to
(xiv) of this paragraph, shall be sighted and documented.
7.—(1)  FIs shall verify the identity of customers and  BOs using reliable,
Verification
of customer
independent source documents, data or information (identification data).
identity
(2)  FIs shall verify the identity of individuals by confirming the —
(a)  date of birth from a valid official document, such as birth certificate,
passport, identity card and national or social security records ;B 492
(b)  residential address through physical visitation and use of other
sources, including utility bill, tax assessment, bank statement, or  letter from
a public authority ;
(c)  contact details provided by the customer through positive feedback
from phone call, email or physical letter to the residential address ;
(d) validity of the official documentation provided through certification
by an authorized person such as embassy official, notary public (in the case
of foreign nationals) ; and
(e)  phone numbers, particularly for wallet providers, through independent
process, including validation against the NCC database or geo-mapping.
(3)  FIs shall verify the identity of a legal person or legal arrangement by —
(a)  undertaking search on public registry or database such as CAC or
similar database, other commercial enquiries and through any other available
sources of information to confirm —
(i)  the existence of the legal person or legal arrangement,
(ii)  whether the legal person or legal arrangement has not been, or is
not in the process of being dissolved, struck off, wound up or terminated,
(iii)  the information on the directors and shareholders or persons or
entities holding similar positions, including their PEP status,
(iv)  information on person with significant control, and
(v)  information on BO, and its PEP status ;
(b)  reviewing a copy of the latest annual report, audited accounts or
relevant financial statement, where applicable ;
(c)  reviewing a copy of the board resolution or applicable resolution ;
(d)  utilizing the documentation from a reliable independent source proving
the name, form and current existence of the customer ;
(e)  utilizing an independent information verification process, such as
accessing public and private databases ;
(f )  obtaining prior bank references, where applicable ;
(g)  visiting the entity ; and
(h)  confirming the contact details provided through phone call, email
and physical letter to the business address.
Identification 8. When conducting CDD measures in relation to customers that are
and
legal persons or legal arrangements, FIs shall —
verification
of (a)  understand the ownership and control structure ;
signatories,
(b) at the time of establishing new relationships or whenever there is a
directors, and
change in ownership, identify and verify the identity of the BOs who exercise
beneficial
owners of
control through ownership or controlling interest, including voting rights ;
legal persons
(c)  subject all account signatories, Directors and BOs to  the
and legal
arrangements requirements for identification and verification of individuals provided
in regulations 6 and 7 of these Regulations ;B 493
(d)  conduct status enquiry from CRMS and at least two Credit Bureaux
to determine their credit status ;
(e)  ascertain that the customer is not banned from the use of clearing
system due to issuance of dud cheque ; and
(f )  maintain a BO register that indicates the names, identification details
and nature of beneficial ownership, including shareholding, voting rights,
controlling interests, source of wealth, and PEP status.
9.—(1)  FIs shall verify — Authority of
third party
(a)   that any person purporting to act on behalf of a customer is so
authorized ; and
(b)  the identity of the person purporting to act on behalf of a customer.
(2)  The verification referred to in subregulation (1)  of this regulation
shall be done through confirmation from the customer the third party is
purporting to represent and from other independent sources.
10.—(1)  FIs shall understand and obtain sufficient information on the
Nature and
purpose of
nature and purpose of the business that its customer intends to undertake,
business
including expected or predictable patterns of transactions.
(2)  FIs shall be at alert to circumstances that may indicate any significant
changes in the nature of a business or its ownership.
11.—(1)  FIs shall understand and obtain sufficient information on the Understanding
sources  of
source of funds into the customer’s account.
funds
(2)  The information to be obtained before the commencement of the
relationship shall include—
(a)   details of occupation, employment or business activities and sources
of wealth and income ; and
(b) expected origin of the funds to be used in the operation of the account
during the relationship.
12.—(1)  FIs shall conduct ongoing due diligence on a business relationship
Ongoing Due
Diligence
and scrutinize transactions undertaken throughout the course of the relationship
to ensure that the transactions being conducted are consistent with the —
(a)   FI’s knowledge of the customer ;
(b)  customer’s business and risk profile ; and
(c)  source of funds.
(2)  FIs shall take reasonable steps to keep the information up-to-date,
and as the need arises, including where an existing customer opens a new
account.B 494
Application 13.—(1)  FIs shall apply CDD requirements to existing customers on
of CDD to
the basis of materiality and risk and continue to conduct due diligence on
existing
such existing relationship at appropriate times.
customers
(2)  The appropriate time to conduct CDD for existing customers include,
but not limited to when —
(a)  transaction of significant value or an unusual transaction occurs ;
(b)  there is significant change in the customer’s profile ;
(c)  there is a material change in the way that the account is operated ; or
(d)  the FIs become aware that it lacks sufficient information about an
existing customer.
Electronic 14.  FIs shall adhere to e-KYC requirements as stipulated in the CBN
KYC
Guidelines on e-KYC and the CDD measures stipulated in these Regulations
(where applicable) as it relates to digital products, and customer onboarding.
15.—(1)  FIs shall conduct initial risk assessment for each prospective
Risk-based
approach to
customer to ascertain the customer’s risk profile.
CDD
(2) The application of CDD measures may be standard, simplified or
enhanced depending on the risks posed by each customer, transaction, products
or service resulting from a customer risk assessment.
(3)  For low risks customers —
(a)  FIs may adopt simplified CDD measures only where lower risks
have been identified through an adequate assessment and analysis of the
risks, and the simplified CDD measures shall be forwarded to the CBN for
approval before implementation by the FI ;
(b)  notwithstanding the application of simplified CDD on customer
identification and verification, the customer is not exempt from ongoing monitoring
for other CDD measures ;
(c)  the simplified measures shall be commensurate with the lower risk
factors but are not acceptable whenever there is suspicion of ML, TF or
PF, or where specific higher risk scenarios apply.
(4)  For high risks customers —
(a)  arising from an initial assessment of a customer, particular attention
shall be focused on those customers identified as having a higher risk profile ;
(b)   customers with higher risk profile include, but not limited to, non-
resident customers, MVTS providers, private banking customers, non-face-
to-face customers, and PEPs ;
(c)  FIs shall apply enhanced CDD measures to business relationships
and transactions with natural and legal persons, and FIs, from countries for
which this is called for by the FATF ; and
(d)  FIs shall conduct enhanced CDD.B 495
16. —(1)  FIs shall comply with Tiered KYC measures as stipulated in Tiered
Know-Your-
the CBN circulars on TKYC and the CBN AML, CFT and CPF Regulations.
Customer
(2)  Tiered KYC shall apply to individuals only and shall not apply to
legal persons and legal arrangements.
17.—(1)  FIs shall perform enhanced CDD for customers, business Enhanced
CDD
relationship or transactions with higher ML, TF, and PF risks.
(2)  The enhanced CDD shall include, but not limited to —
(a)  obtaining additional information on the customer including occupation,
volume of assets, information available through public databases, internet,
and updating more regularly the identification data of the customer and BO ;
(b)  obtaining additional information on the intended nature of the business
relationship ;
(c)  obtaining information on the source of funds and source of wealth of
the customer ;
(d)  obtaining information on the reasons for intended or performed
transactions;
(e)  obtaining the approval of senior management to commence or
continue the business relationship ;
(f )  conducting enhanced monitoring of the business relationship, by
increasing the number and timing of controls applied, and selecting patterns
of transactions that need further examination ; and
(g)  requiring the first payment to be carried out through an account in
the customer’s name with a bank subject to similar CDD standards.
Reliance on
18.—(1)  FIs may rely on the identification and verification steps that it
identification
had previously undertaken, unless it has doubts about the veracity of that
and
information or where there is a material change in the circumstances or profile
verification
of the customer.
already
performed
(2)  The situations that may lead a FI to have doubts about the veracity
of an information include where there is a —
(a)  suspicion of ML, TF or PF in relation to that customer ; or
(b)  material change in the way that the customer’s account is operated,
which is not consistent with the customer’s business profile.
19.—(1)  A  FI that is unable to comply with the CDD measures pursuant Inability to
undertake
to these Regulations shall—
CDD
(a)  not be permitted to open the account, commence business relations
or perform the transaction with the concerned persons ; and
(b)  be required to render a Suspicious Transaction Report (STR) to the
Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU).B 496
(2)  An FI that has commenced the business relationship prior to the
conduct of CDD shall terminate the business relationship and render STR to
the NFIU.
(3)  Where an FI suspects that transactions relate to money laundering,
terrorism financing or proliferation financing, during the establishment or course
of the customer relationship, or when conducting occasional transactions, it
shall immediately, and without delay —
(a) obtain and verify the identity of the customer and the BO, whether
permanent or occasional, irrespective of any exemption or any designated
threshold that might otherwise apply ; and
(b) render an STR to the NFIU immediately.
(4)  FIs and their employees shall maintain confidentiality in respect of
any STR that may be filed with the NFIU and shall not do anything that may
“tip off” any person or entity that is under suspicion of ML, TF or PF.
20.—(1)  In addition to the provisions of regulation 27 of the CBN  AML,
Reliance on
third party
CFT and CPF Regulations where a FI relies on other FIs and DNFBPs to
conduct its CDD, it shall —
(a) immediately obtain the necessary information concerning the
identification and verification of the customer and BO and the purpose and
intended nature of the business relationship ;
(b) take adequate steps to satisfy itself that copies of identification data
and other relevant documentation relating to the CDD requirements is going
to be made available from the third party upon request without delay ;
(c) satisfy itself that the third party is regulated, supervised or monitored
for, and has measures in place for compliance with, the CDD and record
keeping requirements set out in these Regulations and the CBN AML, CFT
and CPF Regulations ; and
(d)  ensure that adequate KYC provisions are applied to the third party
in order to obtain account information for competent authorities.
(2)  Notwithstanding the conditions specified in sub-regulation (1) (a) to
(d) of this regulation, the ultimate responsibility for customer identification
and verification shall be with the FI relying on the third party.
21.—(1)  FIs shall obtain and verify the identity of the customer, beneficial-
Timing of
verification.
owner and occasional customers before or during the course of establishing a
business relationship or conducting transactions for them.
(2)  FIs are permitted to complete the verification of the identity of the
customer and BO following the establishment of the business based on criteria
set out in regulation 22 of the CBN AML, CFT and CPF Regulations.             .B 497
22.—(1)  Where a FI suspects that a transaction relates to ML, TF or Tipping off
PF and it believes that performing the CDD process may tip-off the customer,
it shall—
(a)  not pursue the CDD process ; and
(b)  file an STR to the NFIU, immediately.
(2)  FIs shall ensure that their employees are aware of, and sensitive
to, the issues referred to in subregulation (1) of this regulation when
conducting CDD.
23.  In addition to the provisions of regulation 35 of the CBN  AML, Record
keeping
CFT and CPF Regulations, FIs shall —
(a)  keep all records obtained through CDD measures, account files and
business correspondence, and results of any analysis undertaken,  either in
electronic or written form for at least five years following the termination
or cessation of the business relationship or after the date of the occasional
transaction ; and
(b)  ensure that documents, data or information collected under the CDD
process is kept up-to-date and relevant, by undertaking reviews of existing
records of customers as stipulated below or whenever the need arises,
(i)  for high risk customers, every 12months,
(ii)  for medium risk customers, every 18months, and
(iii)  for low risk customers, every 3years.
PART III — ADDITIONAL MEASURES
24. In addition to identification documentations listed in regulation 6 of Additional
measures for
these Regulations, additional measures on some specific customers and
specific
businesses as provided under this Part shall apply.
customers
and
businesses
25.—(1)  In line with Memorandum 17 of the CBN Foreign Exchange External and
non-resident
Manual, FI shall satisfy itself that a customer is permanently resident outside
non-Nigerian
Nigeria when establishing a banking relationship for external and non-resident
accounts
non-Nigerian customers.
(2)  the following are eligible to open external accounts —
(a)  Embassies ;
(b)  High Commissions ;
(c)  Legations or consulates ;
(d)  career and established members of Embassies, High Commissions,
and Legation or Consulates ; and
(e)  other international organisations recognized and accorded
diplomatic status and their expatriate officials, such as African Union,
United Nations or Commonwealth of Nations.B 498
(3)  FIs shall obtain the following documentation for external
accounts —
(a)  applicant’s letter of request, showing official position or status and
the probable duration of stay in Nigeria ;
(b)  letter of introduction from the relevant Diplomatic Mission or International
Organisation certifying the accredited status of the applicant ; and
(c)  relevant pages of the applicant’s international passport.
(4)  the following are eligible to open non-resident accounts —
(a)  overseas correspondence and examination bodies;
(b)  foreign companies executing approved contracts in Nigeria; and
(c)  foreign professional bodies.
(5)  FIs shall obtain the following documentation for non-resident
accounts —
(a)  for overseas correspondence and examination bodies, letters of
request from applicant, memorandum and articles of the overseas company,
letter of accreditation from the Federal Ministry of Education, and Power
of Attorney to the Agent in Nigeria ;
(b)  for foreign companies executing approved contracts in Nigeria,
contract document, letter of request from applicant, and Memorandum and
Articles of Association of the company ; and
(c)  for foreign professional bodies, letters of request from applicant,
memorandum and articles of the overseas company, letter of accreditation
from the Federal Ministry of Education, Power of Attorney to the Agent in
Nigeria and letter of certification from a relevant body in Nigeria.
(6)  FIs shall —
(a)  obtain and verify identification directly from the customer’s embassy
or through a reputable FI in the applicant’s home country or country of
residence, provided that particular care shall be taken when relying on
identification evidence obtained from other countries ;
(b)  obtain and verify separate evidence of an applicant’s permanent
residential address which shall be notarized ; and
(c)  obtain additional comfort by confirming the customer’s identity and
address from a reputable credit institution in the customer’s home country,
where necessary.
(7)  All accounts of Non-resident stipulated in subregulations (2) and (4)
of this regulation, shall, on completion of the contract or the applicant’s business
in Nigeria, be closed and the balance on the account, if any, transferred to the
customer’s account in country of residence, after proper documentation.
(8)  In cases that are not classified under subregulations  (2) and (4) of
this regulation, FIs shall refer to the CBN for clarification.B 499
(9)  Where approvals are granted for individuals (including directors of
legal persons) that are non-Nigerian and non-resident, the requirements of
regulations 6 and 7 of these Regulations shall apply and the appropriate category
of BVN as relates to non-resident individuals shall apply.
26.—(1)  FIs shall obtain and verify applicant’s name, date of birth and Non-
resident
permanent residential address (in host country) directly through a reputable
Nigerians
Credit Institution or FI in the applicant’s country of residence or a correspondent
bank, provided that particular care shall be taken when relying on identification
evidence obtained from other countries.
(2)  FIs shall validate the source of funds by obtaining identification
issued by employer, payslips or statements of accounts from a bank in the
country of residence.
27.—(1)  FIs shall, as part of CDD measures, obtain and verify the valid Resident
non-
Resident Permit of resident non-Nigerians.
Nigerians
(2)  Where a foreign national has recently arrived in Nigeria, the residential
address in the applicant’s home country shall be notarized.
28.—(1)  Transactions conducted through correspondent relationships
Correspondent
banking
shall be managed in accordance with a risk-based approach.
relationship
(2)  Due diligence procedures shall be established to ascertain whether
or not the correspondent bank or the counter-party is itself regulated for
prevention of  ML, TF or PF, and where regulated, the correspondent respondent
shall verify the identity of its customers in accordance with FATF standards.
(3)  Where the correspondent bank or the counter-party is itself
unregulated, additional due diligence shall be required to ascertain and assess
the correspondent or respondent’s internal policy for prevention of ML, TF or
PF and KYC procedures.
(4)  The volume and nature of transactions flowing through correspondent
accounts with FIs, from high risk jurisdictions or those with inadequacies or
material deficiencies shall be monitored against expected levels and destinations
and any material variances shall be reported as STR to the NFIU.
(5) FIs shall maintain records and ensure that sufficient due diligence
has been undertaken by the remitting bank on the underlying client and the
origin of the funds in respect of the funds passed through their accounts.
(6)  FIs shall guard against establishing correspondent relationships with
high risk foreign banks such as shell banks or with correspondent banks that
permit their accounts to be used by such banks.
(7)  Staff dealing with correspondent banking accounts shall be trained to
recognize higher risk circumstances and be prepared to challenge the
correspondents over irregular activity whether isolated transactions or trend and
to submit a suspicious transaction report to the NFIU.B 500
(8) FIs shall terminate an account with a correspondent bank that fails to
provide satisfactory answers to questions including confirming the identity of
customers involved in unusual or suspicious circumstances.
29.  Where the arrangement for a Foreign Trust or Foundation is opaque
Trusts
or information on the parties to the legal arrangements cannot be provided
because it is incorporated in a jurisdiction (such as tax havens and off-shore
financial centres) that makes it impractical to do so, the FI shall decline to
open an account for the legal arrangement.
Blind trust 30.—(1)  FIs shall obtain and understand the Trust Agreement in a Blind
Trust such that the grantor, settlor or trustor and beneficiary are identified.
(2)  Where the grantor or beneficiary is a PEP, the FI shall apply EDD
measures.
(3)  FIs shall understand the structure of a Blind Trust and determine
whether it is revocable or irrevocable.
(4)  Where the customer is a Revocable Blind Trust, the FI shall apply
EDD measures to the customer.
(5)  FIs shall apply EDD where the BOs of a customer is a Blind Trust
and identify the ultimate BO.
Nominee
31.—(1)  FIs shall require customers that are legal persons to disclose
directors and
nominee shareholders and nominee directors, if any.
nominee
shareholders (2)  FIs shall obtain and verify the identification of nominee directors and
shareholders in a legal person or legal arrangement.
(3)  FIs shall obtain information on the status of nominees and their
nominator to company.
32.—(1)  FIs shall use identification issued by the Nigerian Immigration
Refugees or
asylum
Services or other recognizable government agency to render banking service
seekers
to refugees or asylum seekers.
(2)  FIs shall undertake additional monitoring procedures in respect of
sub-regulation (1) of this regulation to ensure that the use of the account is
consistent with the customer’s circumstances.
Foreign 33.—(1)  FIs shall, as part of CDD measures —
students
(a)  obtain and verify the valid Study Permit of prospective customers
that are non-Nigerian students ;
(b)  obtain and verify identification directly from the customer’s embassy or
through a reputable FI in the applicant’s home country or country of residence,
provided that particular care shall be taken when relying on identification evidence
obtained from other countries ; andB 501
(c)  obtain and verify separate evidence of an applicant’s permanent
residential address in home country, which shall be notarized.
(2)  All accounts of foreign students shall, on completion of the applicant’s
studies in Nigeria, be closed.
34.  (1)  For banking relationships for a minor, FIs shall obtain the birth Minors
certificate and passport photo of the minor.
(2) FIs shall obtain and verify the identification and home address of the
parent or guardian of a minor.
(3)  For accounts opened through a school-related scheme, the school
shall provide the date of birth and permanent address of the minor and
complete the standard account opening documentation on behalf of the
minor.
(4)  FIs shall continuously monitor account of a minor to ensure that —
(a) it is not used for the purposes of ML or TF ;
(b)  the transactions on the account are in line with the purpose for
which the account was opened ; and
(c)  transactions on the account does not exceed a limit pre-determined
by the FI in line with its established risk assessment criteria.
35.  FIs shall —
Non-face-to-
face
(a)  in respect of a non-face-to-face customer, undertake additional
customers
measures or checks to supplement the documentary or electronic evidence
identification
to ensure that an applicant is who he/she claims to be ;
(b)  apply the additional measures in paragraph (a) of this regulation,
whether the applicant is resident in Nigeria or elsewhere, where the applicant
is requesting a bank account or other product or service that offers money
transmission or third party payments ;
(c)  ensure that there is sufficient evidence either documentary or
electronic in its procedures for identification and authentication of its
customers, to confirm their address and personal identity and to undertake
at least one additional check to guard against impersonation or fraud ;
(d)  ensure that the extent of the identification evidence required in this
regulation shall depend on the nature and characteristics of the product or
service and the assessed risk, provided that care shall be taken to ensure
that the same level of information is obtained for internet, postal or telephone
customers ;
(e)  undertake checks to ensure that, where reliance is placed on
intermediaries to undertake the processing of applications on the customer’s
behalf, the intermediaries are regulated for the prevention of ML, TF or PF
and that the relevant identification procedures are applied ;
(f )  conduct regular monitoring of internet-based business or customers
and where a significant proportion of the business is operated electronically,B 502
computerized monitoring systems or solutions that are designed to recognize
unusual transactions and related patterns of transactions shall be put in
place to recognize suspicious transactions ; and
(g)  ensure that in all cases, evidence as to how identity has been verified
shall be obtained and retained with the account opening records.
36.—(1)  An introductory letter shall be issued by the introducing financial
Introductions
from
intermediary or person in respect of each applicant for business.
authorized
(2)  Where an intermediary introduces a customer and then withdraws
financial
intermediaries
from the ensuing relationship,  the underlying customer shall become the
applicant for the business and shall be identified in line with the requirements
for personal, corporate or business customers as appropriate.
(3)  To ensure that product-providers meet their obligations, satisfactory
identification evidence shall be obtained and retained for the necessary statutory
period.
(4)  Each introductory letter shall either be accompanied by certified
copies of the identification evidence obtained in line with the usual practice
of certification of identification documents or by sufficient details and
reference numbers that  permits the actual evidence obtained to be re-
obtained at a later stage.
37.  Where business is introduced or received from a financial
Foreign
intermediaries
intermediary regulated for AML and CFT, who is outside Nigeria, the reliance
that shall be placed on that intermediary to undertake the verification of identity-
check shall be assessed by the Compliance Officer or some other competent
persons within the FI, on a case-by-case basis based on the knowledge of the
intermediary.
Corporate 38.—(1)  Where a customer is introduced by one part of a financial
group
sector group to another, the customer’s identity shall be re-verified, and the
introduction
records shall not be duplicated except—
(a)  the identity of the customer has not been verified by the introducing
parent company, branch, subsidiary or associate in line with the money
laundering requirements of equivalent standards and taking account of any
specific requirements such as separate address verification ;
(b)  no exemptions or concessions have been applied in the original
verification procedures that may not be available to the new relationship ;
(c)  a group introduction letter is obtained and placed with the customer’s
account opening records ; and
(d)  in respect of group introducers from outside Nigeria, in which case
arrangements shall be put in place to ensure that identity is verified in
accordance with requirements and that the underlying records of identity in
respect of the introduced customers are retained for the required period.B 503
(2)  Where an FI has day-to-day access to all the group’s KYC
information and records, there is no need to identify an introduced customer
or obtain a group introduction letter where the identity of that customer
has been previously verified.
(3)  Where the identity of a customer has not been previously verified,
then any missing identification evidence shall be obtained and a risk-based
approach taken on the extent of KYC information that is available on whether
or not additional information shall be obtained.
(4)  Before relying on group introduction, FIs shall ensure that there are
no secrecy or data protection legislation in host or home countries of any of
the financial groups that will restrict free access to the records.
(5)  Where the  restrictions referred to in sub-regulation (4) of this
regulation applies, copies of the underlying records of identity shall, wherever
possible, be sought and retained.
(6)  Where identification records are held outside Nigeria, it shall be the
responsibility of the FI to ensure that the records available meet the
requirements of these Regulations and the CBN AML, CFT and CPF
Regulations.
39.—(1)  Where a FI acquires a business and accounts of another FI, it Acquisition
of a financial
may not be necessary for the identity of the existing customers to be re-
institution
identified, provided that all the underlying customers’ records are acquired
and business
with the business, but it shall carry out due diligence enquiries to confirm that
the acquired institution had conformed with the requirements of the provisions
of these Regulations and CBN AML, CFT and CPF Regulations.
(2)  Verification of identity shall be undertaken for all the transferred
customers who were not verified by the transferor in line with the requirements
for existing customers that open new accounts, where the—
(a)  money laundering procedures previously undertaken have not been
in accordance with the requirements of these Regulations and CBN AML,
CFT and CPF Regulations ; or
(b)  customer records are not available to the acquiring financial
institution.
40.—(1)  Where a customer wishes to open a Domiciliary Account or
Domiciliary
account
make a wholesale deposit by cash or inter-bank transfer, a FI shall obtain
identification evidence in accordance with the requirements for individuals,
companies or professional intermediaries operating on behalf of third parties
as appropriate.
(2)  Where the funds to a domiciliary account are by inter-bank transfer,
FI shall satisfy itself that the transferring institution is regulated for ML, TF or
PF prevention in its country of origin.B 504
41.— (1)  FIs shall take precautions in relation to requests to hold boxes,
Safe custody
and safety
parcels and envelopes in a safe custody.
deposit
(2)  Where such facilities are made available, the identification procedures
boxes
set out in these Regulations shall be followed, depending on the type of
individual involved or risks associated with the business relationship.
(3)  FIs shall not allow items with unidentified contents to be deposited in
safe deposit box and the contents shall be declared and documented at the
point of entering the contract.
(4)  FIs shall maintain registers for on-going monitoring of the activities
of persons who use safe custody or safe deposit box services.
(5)  FIs shall also conduct due diligence on owners of safe deposit boxes.
Retirement
42.  Where an occupational pension programme, employee benefit trust
benefit
or share option plan is an applicant for an account, the trustee and any other
programme
person who has control over the relationship such as the administrator,
programme manager, and account signatories shall be considered as principals
and the financial institution shall take steps to verify their identities.
Non-Profit 43.—(1)  In case of account to be opened for NPOs such as charities,
Organizations
clubs and societies, FIs shall take reasonable steps to identify and verify the
(NPOs)
identity of the institution, members of the governing body or committee, president,
board members, treasurer, and all signatories.
(2)  In all cases, independent verification shall be obtained that the persons
involved are true representatives of the institution and independent confirmation
shall also be obtained of the purpose of the institution.
Professional 44.—(1)  Where a professional intermediary opens a client account on
intermediary
behalf of a single client, that client shall be identified.
(2)  Where professional intermediaries open “pooled” accounts on behalf
of a number of entities, BOs of the account held by the intermediary shall be
identified
(3)  Where funds held by the intermediary are not co-mingled but there
are “sub-accounts” which shall be attributable to each BO, all BOs of the
account held by the intermediary shall be identified.
(4)  Where the funds are co-mingled, the Fl shall look through to the
beneficial owners and take steps to identify —
(a)  the fund itself ;
(b)  its directors or any controlling board, where it is a company ;
(c)  its trustee, where it is a unit trust ;
(d)  its managing (general) partner, where it is a limited partnership ;
(e)  account signatories ; and
(f )  any other person who has control over the relationship such as fund
administrator or manager.B 505
(5)  Where other investment vehicles are involved —
(a)  the same steps specified in regulation 28 of these Regulations shall
be taken, where it is appropriate to do so ; and
(b)  all reasonable steps shall be taken to verify the identity of the BOs
of the funds and of those who have control over the funds.
(6)  Intermediaries shall be treated as individual customers of the FI and
the standing of the intermediary shall be separately verified by obtaining the
appropriate information itemized in regulation 28 of these Regulations.
45.  In addition to requirements stipulated in respective guidelines for Agency
relationship
different FIs’ operation in respect to agency relationships and CDD measures
in these Regulations, FIs shall —
(a)  establish efficient and thorough Agent Due Diligence procedures to
mitigate risks ;
(b)  define initial agent engagement, conduct regular monitoring and
supervisory checks, trigger points and corrective measures ; and
(c)  publish an updated list of all their agents on their websites and annual
reports.
PART IV — MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
46.  The administrative sanctions and penalties for  non-compliance
Sanctions
for non-
with these Regulations shall be as specified in the  Banks and Other Financial
compliance
Institutions Act (BOFIA), 2020 and Schedule to these Regulations.
47.  The Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria may, as considered
Amendments
or revocation
appropriate, amend or revoke the provisions of these Regulations which
of these
amendment or revocation shall be published in the Gazette.
regulations
48.  In these Regulations —
“Account” means to bank accounts, wallets and similar services offered
Interpretation
by FIs ;
“Agent” means an entity that is engaged by a financial institution to
provide specific financial services on its behalf ;
“Bank Verification Number (BVN)” means the biometric identification
system which gives a unique identity across the banking industry to each
customer of Nigerian banks;
“Beneficial owner” includes a natural person who ultimately owns or
controls a customer or a person on whose behalf a transaction is being
conducted and the persons who exercise ultimate control over a legal person
or arrangement ;
“Blind Trust” means a trust   set up by the grantor to transfer complete
control of their assets and investments to an independent third-party termed
the trustee ;B 506
“Business Relationship” means any arrangement between a Financial
Institution and an applicant for business, the purpose of which is to facilitate
the carrying out of transactions between the parties on a “frequent, habitual
or regular” basis and where the monetary value of dealings in the course of
the arrangement is not known or capable of being ascertained at the outset ;
“CAC” means Corporate Affairs Commission ;
“Domestic transfer” means any wire transfer where the originator and
beneficiary institutions are both located in Nigeria, and this term therefore,
refers to any chain of wire transfers that takes place entirely within Nigeria’s
borders, even though the system used to effect the wire transfer may be
located in another jurisdiction ;
“FATF” means Financial Action Task Force ;
“FATF Recommendations” means AML, CFT and CPF
Recommendations issued by the Financial Action Task Force ;
“Financial Institutions” means banks and other financial institutions as
defined in BOFIA ;
“Financing of terrorism” includes all acts so defined under the TPPA
and TPP Regulations ;
“Funds” include assets of every kind, tangible or intangible, movable or
immovable however acquired, legal documents or instruments in any form,
electronic or digital evidencing title or interest in such assets, bank credits,
travellers cheques, bank cheques, money orders, shares, securities, bonds,
drafts and letters of credit ;
“Legal arrangement” means express trusts or other similar legal
arrangements ;
“Legal persons” means bodies corporate, foundations, partnerships, or
associations, or any similar bodies or entities that can establish a permanent
customer relationship with a Financial Institution or otherwise own property ;
“Money Laundering” means the—
(i)  conversion or transfer of property (i.e. money, goods, commodities,
etc.) knowing that such property is derived from a criminal offence, for
the purpose of concealing or disguising the illicit origin of the property or
of assisting any person who is involved in the commission of such
offences,
(ii) concealment or disguising of the true nature, source, location,
disposition, movement, rights with respect to, or ownership of property
knowing that such property is derived from a criminal offence, or
(iii)  acquisition, possession or use of property, knowing at the time of
receipt that such property was derived from a criminal or from an act of
participation in such offence ;
“National Identification Number (NIN)” means a unique number issued
by the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) ;B 507
“Nominee” means an individual or legal person instructed by another
individual or legal person (“the nominator”) to act on their behalf in a certain
capacity regarding a legal person ;
“Nominee Director” (also known as a “resident director” or “corporate
director” (if the director is a legal person) means an individual or legal entity
that exercises the functions of the director in the company on behalf of and
subject to the instructions of the nominator ;
“Nominee Shareholder” means an individual or legal person who
exercises the associated voting rights according to the instructions of the
nominator and receives dividends on behalf of the nominator ;
“Non-profit or non-governmental Organization” means a legal entity
or organization that primarily engages in raising or disbursing funds for
purposes such as charitable, religious, cultural, educational, social or fraternal
purposes, or for the carrying out of other types of good works ;
“One-off transaction” means any transaction carried out other than in
the course of an established business relationship which is important to
determine whether an applicant for business is undertaking a one-off
transaction or whether the transaction is or will be a part of a business
relationship as this can affect the identification requirements ;
“Originator” means an account holder or where there is no account, the
natural or legal person that places the order with the Financial Institution to
perform a wire transfer ;
“Proliferation Financing (PF)” means the act of providing funds or
financial services which are used, in whole or in part, for the manufacture,
acquisition, possession, development, export, trans-shipment, brokering,
transport, transfer, stockpiling, or use of nuclear, chemical, or biological
weapons and their means of delivery and related materials (including both
technologies and dual-use goods for non-legitimate purposes), in
contravention of national laws or, where applicable, international obligations;
“Public Legal entity” includes arms and tiers of Government, Ministries
Departments and Agencies (MDAs) and any statutory Office or sole
corporate designated by law to carry out a function of or on behalf of
Government or any of its agencies ;
“Risk” means the risk of money laundering or terrorist financing ;
“Settlors” includes persons or companies who transfer ownership of
their assets to trustees by means of a trust deed and where the trustees
have some discretion as to the investment and distribution of the trust’s
assets, the deed may be accompanied by a non-legally binding letter setting
out what the settlor wishes to be done with the assets ;
“Shell bank” means a bank that has no physical presence in the country
in which it is incorporated and licensed, and which is unaffiliated with a
regulated financial service group that is subject to effective consolidated
supervision ;B 508
“Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN)” means a unique number
allocated and issued to identify a person (individual or non-individual) as a
duly registered taxpayer in Nigeria ;
“Terrorist” means any natural person who—
(a)  directly or indirectly, unlawfully and willfully —
(i)  commits, or attempts to commit, an act of terrorism by any means,
(ii)  participates as an accomplice in an act of terrorism,
(iii)  organises or directs others to commit an act of terrorism ; or
(b) contributes to the commission of an act of terrorism where the
contribution is made intentionally and with the aim of furthering the act of
terrorism or with the knowledge of the intention to commit an act of
terrorism ;
“Terrorist or Terrorism Financier” means a person or entity, who
makes funds, assets, or other material support available to terrorists and
terrorist organisations, for the financing of terrorist activities or terrorism;
“Trustees” include paid professionals or companies or unpaid persons who
hold the assets in a trust fund separate from their own assets, they invest and
dispose of them in accordance with the settlor’s trust deed, taking account of
any letter of wishes, and there may also be a protector who may have power
to veto the trustees’ proposals or remove them, or a custodian trustee, who
holds the assets to the order of the managing trustees ;
“Unique identifier” means any unique combination of letters, numbers
or symbols that refers to a specific originator ; and
“Wire transfer” means any transaction carried out on behalf of an
originator both natural and legal person, through a Financial Institution by
electronic means, with a view to making an amount of money available to a
beneficiary person at another financial institution ; where the originator and
the beneficiary may be the same person.
Citation 49.  These Regulations may be cited as Central Bank of Nigeria
(Customer Due Diligence) Regulations, 2023.B 509
SCHEDULE
S/N Required Infraction Deposit Money Other Financial
Action Banks (DMBS)/ Institutions
 PSBs (OFIS)
1. CDD 1. Failure to est- A minimum penalty for For OFIs:
measures — ablish internal DMBs : A minimum penalty on
Regulation 5 process and (a) A minimum of the OFI as follows :
procedures for N750,000 on the ECO. (a) N1 million - BDCs
conducting CDD (b) A minimum penalty of (b) N500,000 -  MFBs
measures for all N500,000 on the CCO. (c) N1million - FCs
customers. (c)  N500,000 on other (d) N1million - PMBs
culpable employees (e) N5million - DFIs.
A minimum penalty of
For PSP :
N20million on the DMB.
A minimum penalty on
the PSP as follows :
A minimum penalty for
(a) N500,000 - MMO
PSBs :
(b) N500,000 -  SP
(a) A minimum penalty of
(c) N500,000 - PSSP
N250,000 on the CCO.
(d) N500,000  - SA
(b) N200,000 on other
(e) N300,000 - PTSP
culpable employees.
A minimum penalty of
N10million on the PSB
thereafter (where the
contravention continues).
2. CDD 2. Failure to A minimum penalty for For OFIs:
measures – undertake CDD DMBs : A minimum penalty on
Regulation 5 measures on (a ) A minimum of the CCO as follows :
customers. N750,000 on the ECO. (a ) N100,000 –BDCs
(b) A minimum penalty of (b) N100,000 – MFBs
N500,000 on the CCO. (c) N200,000 - FCs
(c) N500,000 on other (d) N500,000 - PMBs
culpable employees. (e) N500,000 - DFIs.
A minimum penalty of
A minimum penalty of
N200,000 per customer
N50,000 per customer
without CDD.
without CDD.
A minimum penalty for
For PSP :
PSBs :
A minimum penalty any
(a) A minimum penalty of
or all culpable officers
N250,000 on the CCO.
such as the MD and
(b ) N200,000 on other
CEO as follows :
culpable employees
(a) N500,000 –MMO
A minimum penalty of
(b) N100,000 – SP
N100,000 per customer.
(c) N500,000 –PSSP
(d) N500,000 –SAB 510
A minimum penalty on
the PSP as follows :
(a) N300,000 per wallet
holder –MMO
(b) N300,000 per
customer –PSSP
(c) N300,000 per Agent
and Customer –
Super Agent (SA)
For IMTOs:
A minimum penalty of
N200,000 per
transaction
conducted without
CDD.
For OFIs :
3. Identification Failure to identify For DMBs :
A minimum penalty on
and and verify the (a) A minimum penalty
the CCO as follows :
verification of identity of the of  N1,250,000 on the
(a) N100,000 – BDCs
signatories beneficial owners, ECO
(b) N100,000 – MFBs
and Directors Directors, (b) A minimum penalty of
(c) N200,000 - FCs
in legal signatories and N1million on the CCO.
(d) N500,000 - PMBs
persons and those with (c) N500,000 on other
(e) N 500,000 - DFIs).
legal controlling interest culpable employees.
arrangements- in legal persons or
A minimum penalty (per
A minimum penalty of
Regulation 8 legal arrangements,
customer of the OFI not
N500,000 per customer of
identified or verified) as
DMB not identified or
follows :
verified.
(a) N50,000 – BDC
For PSBs :
(b) N50,000 – Tier 1 Unit
(a) A minimum penalty of
MFB
N500,000 on the CCO.
(c) N100,000 – Tier 2
(b) N250,000 on other
Unit MFB
culpable employees.
(d) N200,000 – State
A minimum penalty of
MFB
N200,000 per customer.
(e) N300,000 - National
MFB
(f  ) N200,000 – State
PMB
(g) N300,000 - National
PMB
(h) N200,000 - FC)
(i) N300,000- RDFIs)
(j) N500,000 - WDFIsB 511
For PSPs:
A minimum penalty on
the CCO as follows:
(a) N300,000– MMO
(b) N100,000 – SP
(c) N300,000 – PSSP
(d) N300,000 – SA
(d) N100,000 on other
culpable employees
A minimum penalty on
the PSP as follows :
(a) N100,000 per wallet
holder – MMO
(b) N50,000 per customer
– SP
(c) N100,000 per
customer – PSSP
(d) N50,000 per wallet
and agent – SA
4. Ongoing due
Failure to conduct A minimum penalty as
For OFIs:
diligence –
ongoing due follows :
A minimum penalty on
Regulation
diligence on the
the CCO as follows :
For DMBs :
12.
business
(a) N200,000 – BDCs
(a) N1,500,000 on the
relationship and
(b) N200,000 – MFBs
ECO.
scrutinize
(c) N100,000 - FCs
(b) N1,000,000 on the
transactions
(d) N500,000 - PMBs
CCO
undertaken
(e) N 750,000 - DFIs.
(c) N500,000 on other
throughout the
(f  ) N200,000 on other
culpable employees
course of the
culpable employees.
A minimum penalty of
relationship.
N100,000 per customer of
A minimum penalty of
the DMB.
N50,000 per customer.
For PSBs :
For PSPs
(a) N500,000 on the CCO
A minimum penalty on
(b) N250,000 on other
the CCO as follows :
culpable employees
(a) N500,000 –MMO
A minimum penalty of
(b) N300,000 – SP
N50,000 per customer of
(c) N500,000 – PSSP
the PSB.
(d) N500,000- SA
(e) N300,000 on other
culpable employees.
A minimum penalty on
the PSP as follows :
(a) N1,000,000 – MMOB 512
(b) N500,000 – SP
(c) N1,000,000 – PSSP
(d) N1,000,000 – SA
And a minimum penalty
of  N100,000 per wallet,
merchant or customer.
For IMTOs :
N1,000,000 on the
IMTO.
5. Risks based 1. Failure to A minimum penalty as For OFIs :
approach to implement risk follows : A minimum penalty on
CDD – and based approach (a) N1,250,000 on the the CCO as follows:
tiered KYC to CDD ECO. (a) N100,000 – BDCs
Regulations 2. Failure to obtain (b) N1,000,000 on the (b) N100,000 – MFBs
15 and 16 CBN approval CCO. (c) N200,000 - FCs
before (c) N15million on the (d) N500,000 - PMBs
implementing DMB. (e) N1 million DFIs)
simplified CDD A minimum penalty of
A minimum penalty on
(other than N500,000 per customer
the OFI as follows :
TKYC) (where applicable).
(a) N1 million – BDCs
measures.
For PSBs : (b) N500,000 – Tier 1
3. Failure to
(a) N500,000 on the Unit MFBs
comply with
CCOs. (c) N300,000 – Tier 2
Tiered KYC
(b) N10million on the Unit MFBs
measures as
PSB. (d) N1 million – State
stipulated in the
A minimum penalty of MFBs
CBN AML, CFT
N200,000 per customer (e) N2 million - National
and CPF
(where applicable). MFBs
Regulations
(f  ) N2million – State
2022.
PMBs
(g) N5 million - National
PMBs
(h) N1 million - FCs
(i) N5 million - RDFIs.
(j) N10 million – WDFIs
A minimum penalty of
N100,000 per customer
(where applicable).
For PSP :
A minimum penalty on
the CCO as follows:
(a) N500,000 – MMOs
(b) N100,000 – SPB 513
(c) N500,000 – PSSPs
(d) N500,000 – SA
A minimum penalty on
the PSP as follows :
(a) N2,000,000 –
MMOs
(a) N500,000 – SP
(b) N2,000,000 – PSSPs
(c) N500,000 – SA
A minimum penalty of
N200,000 per
customer.
For  IMTOs :
N500,000 on the IMTO
A minimum penalty as
4. Failure to
For  OFIs :
follows :
conduct initial
A minimum penalty on
customer risk
For DMBs :
the CCO as follows :
assessment for
(a) N1,500,000 on the
(a) N200,000 – BDCs
each customer.
ECO.
(b) N200,000 – MFBs
(b) N1,000,000 on the
(c) N100,000 - FCs
CCO
(d) N500,000 - PMBs
(c) N500,000 on other
(e) N 750,000 - DFIs.
culpable employees.
(f  ) N200,000 on other
culpable employees
A minimum penalty of
N100,000 per customer of
A minimum penalty of
the DMB.
N50,000 per customer.
For PSBs : For PSPs
(a) N500,000 on the CCO A minimum penalty on
(b) N250,000 on other the CCO as follows:
culpable employees. (a) N500,000 –MMO
(b) N300,000 – SP
A minimum penalty of
(c) N500,000 – PSSP
N50,000 per customer of
(d) N500,000- SA
the PSB.
(e) N300,000 on other
culpable employees.
A minimum penalty on
the PSP as follows :
(a) N1,000,000 – MMO
(b) N500,000 – SP
(c) N1,000,000 – PSSP
(d) N1,000,000 – SAB 514
And a minimum
penalty of N100,000
per wallet, merchant
or customer.
For IMTOs :
N1,000,000 on the
IMTO
For  OFIs :
6. Enhanced
A minimum penalty as
Failure to perform
A minimum penalty on
CDD –
follows:
enhanced CDD for
the CCO as follows :
Regulation
For DMBs :
customers,
(a) N200,000 –BDCs
 17
(a) N1,500,000 on the
business
(b) N200,000 –MFBs
ECO.
relationship or
(c) N100,000 - FCs
(b) N1,000,000 on the
transactions with
(d) N500,000 - PMBs
CCO.
higher ML, TF and
(e) N 750,000 - DFIs.
(c) A minimum penalty
PF risks.
of N500,000 per
A minimum penalty of
customer concerned.
N100,000 on OFIs per
customer.
For PSBs :
(a) N500,000 on the CCO
For PSPs :
(b) A minimum penalty
A minimum penalty on
of  N200,000 per
the CCO as follows:
customer concerned.
(a) N500,000 –MMO
(b) N300,000 – SP
(c) N500,000 –PSSP
(d) N500,000 - SA
A minimum penalty on
the PSP as follows:
(a) N300,000 per
wallet –MMO
(b) N100,000 per
customer – SP
(c) N300,000 per
customer –PSSP
(d) N300,000 per
agent and
customer –SA
For IMTOs :
A minimum penalty of
N100,000 per
customer.B 515
Failure to conduct A minimum penalty as For  OFIs :
7. CDD with
Agent due follows : N200,000 per agent.
respect to
diligence and
agents
For DMBs: For PSPs :
monitoring.
Regulation
(a) N1,000,000 each on A minimum penalty per
  45
the MD and ECO. agent as follows :
(b) N750,000 on the CCO. (a) N500,000 – MMO
(c) N500,000 per agent. (b) N100,000 – SP
(c) N500,000 – PSSP
(d) N500,000 – SA
For  IMTOs :
     Minimum penalty of
N500,000 per agent
of the IMTO.
8. Keep records
Failure to keep
For  DMBs : For  OFIs :
and ensure
records and ensure
A minimum penalty of A minimum penalty on
that records
that records are up
N10million on the DMB. the OFI as follows :
are up to date
to date
For  PSBs : (a) N1 million – BDC
Regulation 23
A minimum penalty of (b) N300,000 – Tier 1
N5million on the PSB. Unit MFB
(c) N200,000 – Tier 2
Unit MFB
(d) N1 million – State
MFB
(e) N2 million - National
MFB
(f ) N1million – State
PMB
(g) N2 million - National
PMB
(h) N500,000 million - FC
(i) N2 million - RDFIs.
(j ) N3 million - WDFIs
For PSPs :
A minimum penalty on
the CCOs as follows :
(a) N300,000 – MMO
(b) N100,000 – SP
(c) N300,000 – PSSP
(d) N300,000 – SA
A minimum penalty on
the PSP as follows :
(a) N1,000,000 – MMOB 516
(b) N500,000 – SP
(c) N1,000,000– PSSP
(d) N500,000 – SA
For IMTOs) :
N500,000 on the
IMTO.
Failure to
9. Timing of A minimum penalty as For OFIs:
complete the
verification – follows : A minimum penalty on
verification of the
Regulation the CCO as follows:
For DMBs:
identity of the
21 (a) N100,000 –BDCs
(a) N500,000 on the ECO.
customer and
(b) N100,000 –MFBs
(b) N300,000 on the CCO.
beneficial owner
(c) N100,000 - FCs
(c) N300,000 on other
within 48 hours
(d) N100,000 - PMBs
culpable employees.
based on criteria
(e ) N100,000 - DFIs.
A minimum penalty of
set out in
A minimum penalty of
N500,000 per customer on
Regulation 22 of
N100,000 per customer
the DMB.
the CBN AML,
of  OFIs
CFT and CPF
For PSBs :
For PSPs :
Regulations.
(a) N300,000 on the CCO
A minimum penalty on
(b) N200,000 each on
the CCO as follows :
other culpable
(a) N300,000 –MMO
employees.
(b) N100,000 – SP
A minimum penalty of
(c) N300,000 –PSSP
N200,000 per customer of
(d) N300,000- SA
the PSB.
A minimum penalty on
the PSP as follows :
(a) N300,000 per wallet
holder –MMO
(b) N100,000 per wallet
– SP
(c) N300,000 per
customer –PSSP
(d) N300,000 per agent
and customer –SA
For IMTOs :
A minimum penalty of
N100,000 per customer.B 517
A minimum penalty as For OFIs :
10. Identification
Failure to conduct
follows : A minimum penalty on
for specific
additional CDD
the MD and CCO as
customers
for specific
For DMBs :
follows :
and
customers and
(a) N1,500,000 on the
(a) N300,000 – MFBs
businesses –
businesses as
MD and ECO.
(b) N200,000 - FCs
Regulation
contain in Part III
(b) N1,000,000 on the
(c) N500,000 - PMBs
25 – 44
CCO.
(d) N500,000 DFIs.
(c) N500,000 on other
(e) N250,000 on other
culpable employees
culpable employees
(d) N100,000 per
customer. For PSPs :
A minimum penalty on
For PSBs :
the MD and CCO as
(a) N500,000 on the Chief
follows :
Compliance Officer.
(a)  N500,000 – MMO
(b) N250,000 on other
(b) N100,000 – SP
culpable employees
(c) N500,000 – PSSP
A minimum penalty of
(d) N500,000 – SA
N50,000 per customer.
(e) N250,000 on other
culpable employees.
For OFIs :
11. Sanction for
Any FI who A minimum penalty as
A minimum penalty on
contraventions
contravenes any follows :
the MD and CCO as
not expressly
provision of these
For DMBs :
follows :
provided.
Regulations for
(a) N1,500,000 each on the
(a) N300,000 – MFBs
which a sanction
MD and ECO.
(b) N200,000 - FCs
is not expressly
(b) N1,000,000 each on the
(c) N500,000 - PMBs
provided for,
CCO.
(d) N 1 million DFIs.
commits an
(c) N2 million on the
A minimum penalty per
infraction
DMB.
transaction on the OFI
For PSBs:
as follows :
(a)  N500,000 on the MD
(a) N300,000 – Tier 1
and CCO.
Unit MFB
(b) N250,000 on other
(b) N300,000 – Tier 2
culpable employees
Unit MFB
(c) N500,000 on the PSB.
(c) N500,000 – MFB
A minimum penalty of
(d) N500,000 - MFB
N50,000 on PSB per
(e) N500,000 – State
customer.
PMB
(f ) N500,000 - National
PMB
(g) N500,000 - FC
(h) N500,000 - RDFIs.
(i) N1 million - WDFIsB 518
For PSPs :
A minimum penalty on
the MD and CCO as
follows :
(a)   N500,000 – MMO
(b) N200,000 – SP
(c) N500,000 – PSSP
(d) N500,000 – SA
A minimum penalty per
transaction on the PSP
as follows:
(a) N500,000– MMO
(b. N200,000 – SP
(c) N500,000– PSSP
(d) N500,000– SA
For IMTOs :
N500,000 on the
IMTOB 519
TABLE OF ABBREVIATIONS
AML — Anti-Money Laundering
BDC — Bureau De Change
BO — Beneficial Owner
CAC — Corporate Affairs Commission
CBN — Central Bank of Nigeria
CCO — Chief Compliance Officer
CDD — Customer Due Diligence
CFT — Combating the Financing of Terrorism
CPF — Countering Proliferation Financing
CRO — Chief Risk Officer
DFIs — Development Finance Institutions
DNFBPs — Designated Non-Financial Business and Professions
DMBs — Deposit Money Banks
ECO — Executive Compliance Officer
EDD — Enhanced Due Diligence
FC — Finance Companies
FIs — Financial Institutions
IMTOs — International Money Transfer Operators
KYC — Know-Your-Customer
MD — Managing Director
MFBs — Micro Finance Banks
ML — Money Laundering
MMOs — Mobile Money Operators
MVTS — Money and Value Transfer Services
NFIU — Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit
NIMC — National Identity Management Commission
NIN — National Identification Number
PEP — Politically Exposed Person
PF — Proliferation Financing
PMBs — Primary Mortgage Banks
PSBs — Payment Service Banks
PSSbs — Payment Solution Service Providers
RDFIs — Retail Development Finance Institutions
RMs — Relationship Manager
ROs — Religious Organisations
SAs — Super Agent s
SPs — Switching and Processing
SPVs — Special Purpose Vehicles
STR — Suspicious Transaction Report
TF — Terrorism Financing
UNSCRs — United Nations Security Council Resolutions
WDFIs — Wholesale Development Finance InstitutionsB 520
MADE at Abuja this 31st day of May, 2023.
GODWIN I. EMEFIELE, CON
Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria
EXPLANATORY NOTE
(This note does not form part of these Regulations
but is intended to explain its purpose)
These Regulations seek to ensure that Financial Institutions comply withcustomer due
diligence measures as required by the Anti-Money Laundering, Combating the Financing
of Terrorism, and Countering Proliferation Financing of Weapons of Mass Destruction
legislations and regulations.