Extraordinary 
Federal Republic of Nigeria 
Official Gazette 
No. 00 Lagos - OOnd February, 2019 Vol. 00 
Government Notice No. 00 
The following is published as supplement to this Gazette: 
S.L No. Short Title Page 
00 Income Tax (Common Reporting Standard) Regulations, 2019 
B00-00 
Printed and Published by The Federal Government Printer. Lagos. Nigeria 
FGP 91/82019/1,000 
Annual Subscription from 1st January. 2019 is Local. N45,000.00 Overseas : N60.500.00 [Surface Mail] 
N75,000.00 [Second Class Air Mail]. Present issue N 1,500 per copy. Subscribers who wish to obtain Gazette after 1st 
January should apply TO the Federal Government Printer. Lagos for amended Subscriptions. 
B 3 
FEDERALINLANDREVENUESERVICE(ESTABLISIIMENT) 
ACT, 2007 
INCOME TAX (COMMON REPORTING STANDARD) 
REGULATIONS, 2019 
  
ARRANGEMENT OF REGULATIONS 
Regulation 
PART I—PRELIMINARY 
1. Purpose. 
2. Scope. 
PART II—REQUIREMENTS OF THE COMMON REPORTING STANDARD 
3. Status of the Guidelines. 
4. Due Diligence Requirements. 
5. Reporting Requirements. 
6. Record-Keeping Requirements. 
PART III—ADMINISTRATION 
7. Functions and Powers of the Service 
8. Access and Inspection of Books, etc, and Provision of Information and Assistance. 
9. Confidentiality of CRS Information Return. 
PART IV―NON-COMPLIANCE AND PENALTIES 
10. Non-Compliance and Penalties. 
11. Imposition ofPenalties. 
PART V一SUPPLEMENTARY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS 
12. Anti-Avoidance. 
13. Interpretation. 
14. Commencement. 
15. Short Title. 
B 5 
 
S. 1. No. 28 of 2019 
FEDERAL INLAND REVENUE SERVICE (ESTABLISHMENT) 
ACT, 2007 
INCOME TAX (COMMON REPORTING STANDARD) 
REGULATIONS, 2019 
[Is, Day of July, 2019] 
Commence-
ment. 
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 61 of the Federal Inland 
Revenue Service (Establishment) Act, No. 13 of 2007 ("the Act”)and all other powers 
enabling it in that behalf, the Federal Inland Revenue Service Board established 
u
under Section 3(1) of the Act ( the Board”)with the approval of the Minister, makes 
the following Regulations— 
PART I—PREMILINARY 
Purpose. 
1. These Regulations give effect to the provisions of— 
(。)Multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters 
("MAC") and the Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement (“MCAA”) on 
Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information, signed by Federal Republic of 
u
Nigeria ( Nigeria,,) on 17th August 2017 ; 
(b) the Common Reporting Standard ("CRS”)and its Commentaries ("CRS 
Commentaries,,) contained in Parts II.B and III.B of the Standard for Automatic 
Exchange of Financial Account Information in Tax Matters approved by the Council 
of the Organisation fbr Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) on 15th July 
2014, as set out in Parts II and III respectively, of the AEOI Implementation and 
Compliance Guidelines ("the Guidelines,,); 
(c) Sections 8(l)(z), 8(1)(/), 8(2), 27(1) and 29 of the Act; and 
(d) Sections 58 and 60 of the Companies Income Tax Act, CAP C21, Laws of the 
Federation of Nigeria, 2004. 
2. These Regulations specify matters including, but not limited to— 
Scope. 
(a) matters that the Standard foresees to be specified by Nigeria with respect to 
5
Financial institutions implementation and compliance with "the Guidelines,,; 
(B) requirements regarding the due diligence procedures with respect to financial accounts and 
the reporting of financial account information to the Federal Inland Revenue Service ("the Service") 
that Financial Institutions shall comply with when implementing and applying the Guidelines ; and 
(c) requirements with respect to the effective implementation of the CRS and the CRS 
Commentaries in Nigeria.   
B 6 
PART II—REQUIREMENTS OF THE COMMON REPORTING STANDARD 
3. The CRS and the CRS Commentaries as contained in the Guideline as well as 
Status of the 
Guidelines. 
the Guidelines issued by the Service pursuant to regulations 7 of these Regulations shall be 
binding and Reporting Financial Institutions shall apply the CRS in accordance with the 
Commentaries, as may from time to time be issued by the Service. 
4. — 1) Reporting Financial Institution shall establish, maintain and document 
the procedures required to be applied by this regulation that are designed to identify 
Due 
Diligence 
Reportable Accounts maintained by the institution. 
Requirements. 
(2) Reporting Financial Institution shall identify Reportable Accounts maintained by 
the institution by applying the due diligence procedures described in Sections II to VII of the 
CRS, and the due diligence procedures shall be applied consistently with the CRS 
Commentaries contained in part III of the Guidelines. 
(3) An account shall be treated as a Reportable Account beginning from the date it is 
identified as such, pursuant to the due diligence procedures in Sections II to VII of the CRS 
and, unless otherwise provided, information with respect to a Reportable Account shall be 
reported annually in the calendar year following the year to which the information relates. 
(4) For the purposes of these Regulations, an account with a balance or value that is 
negative is deemed to have a balance or value equal to nil. 
(5) In determining the balance or value of an account denominated in a currency, other 
than United State Dollars ("USD") for the purposes of the CRS and these Regulations, a 
Reporting Financial Institution shall translate the relevant USD threshold amount described in 
the CRS into the other currency by reference to the foreign exchange spot rate on the date for 
which the institution is determining the threshold amount. 
(6) With respect to New Entity Accounts, fbrthe purposes of determining whether a 
Controlling Person of a Passive Non-Financial Entity ("NFE") is a Reportable Person, a 
Reporting Financial Institution may only rely on a selfcertification from either the Account 
Holder or the Controlling Person. 
(7) Reporting Financial Institution may use service provider to fulfil the reporting and 
due diligence obligations, but these obligations shall remain the responsibility of the Reporting 
Financial Institution. 
(8) Reporting Financial Institution may apply the due diligence procedures for New 
Accounts, as described in Section IV or VI of the CRS, to Preexisting Accounts, and the due 
diligence procedures for High Value Accounts, as described in paragraph C of Section III of 
the CRS, to Lower Value Accounts.   
B 7 
(9) Reporting Financial Institution may apply the residence address procedures as described in 
sub-paragraph B (1) of Section III of the CRS to a Lower Value Account. 
(10) Reporting Financial Institutions may apply paragraphs A to C of Section V of the CRS to 
determine whether a Pre-existing Entity Account is subject to the due diligence procedures described in 
Section V of the CRS. 
5. ―1) A Reporting Financial Institution shall, in respect of the calendar year 2019 and every 
following calendar year, file with the Service an Information. Return setting out the 
Reporting 
information required to be reported as described in paragraphs A and B of Section I of the Requirements. 
Guidelines, subject to paragraphs C to E of the same Section, in relation to every Financial 
Account identified as a Reportable Account that is maintained by the institution at any 
time during a calendar year. 
(2) Where a Reporting Financial Institution applies the due diligence, procedures 
described in regulation 4 of these Regulations for a calendar year and no account is 
identified as a Reportable Account, the institution shall file with the Service an 
Information Return which provides that the institution maintains no such Reportable 
Accounts in respect of that year. 
(3) An Information Return, required to be filed by this regulation, shall be filed 
electronically using such technology as may be approved or provided by the Service, and 
in such form as the Service may require. 
(4) An Information Return, required to be filed by these Regulations, shall be 
submitted on or before 31st May of the year following the calendar year to which the 
return relates. 
6. 一(1) Reporting Financial Institution shall keep records of the steps undertaken 
and any evidence relied upon or any record that the institution obtains or creates for the 
purpose of complying with these Regulations, including self-certifications and records of 
Record- 
Documentary Evidence. Keeping 
Requirements. 
(2) Reporting Financial Institution required by these Regulations to keep records 
that does so electronically shall retain them in an electronically readable format for the 
retention period referred to in sub-regulation (4) of this regulation. 
(3) Reporting Financial Institution that obtains or creates records, as required under these 
Regulations, in a language other than English shall provide an English translation to the Service. 
(4) Reporting Financial Institution that is required to keep, obtain or create records under these 
Regulations shall retain those records for a period of at least six years following the end of the last 
calendar year in respect of which the record is relevant.   
B 8 
PART III -ADMINISTRATION 
7. The Service shall administer and enforce compliance with these Regulations 
Functions and 
and issue Guidelines for such purposes. Accordingly, the Service ma\ exercise all powers 
Powers of the 
Service. 
vested in it under the Act and other relevant laws to realise that purpose. 
8. — 1) The Service may, by notice in writing, at all reasonable times, enter any 
premises or place ofbusiness of a Financial Institution, or require a Financial Institution to 
Access and 
give it within such time, not less than 14 days, as may be provided by the notice, with such 
Inspection of 
information as the Service may reasonably require fbr any purpose relating to the 
Books、 etc, 
administration or enforcement of these Regulations, including— 
and Provision 
of Information 
(а) determining whether information included in an Information Return is correct 
and Assistance. 
and complete ; 
(б) determining whether information not included in an Information Return was 
rightfully excluded ; and 
(c) examining the procedures put in place by the institution fbr the purposes of ensuring 
compliance with that institution's obligations under these Regulations. 
(2) The Service may require a Financial Institution to produce books, records or 
other documentation; to provide information, explanations and particulars; and to give all 
assistance which the Service may reasonably require relating to the administration or 
enforcement of these Regulations. 
(3) The Service may make extracts from or copies of all or any part of the books, 
records or other documents or other materials made available to the Service or require that 
copies of books, records or other documents be made available to the Service fbr any purpose 
relating to the administration or enforcement of these Regulations. 
(4) The Service may seek the cooperation of any person or Agency of 
Government fbr the purposes of administration and enforcement of these Regulations. 
9. The Service shall preserve the confidentiality of an Infoimation Return at least 
to the same extent that would apply if such information were provided to it under the 
provisions of the domestic laws, the MAC or the MCAA. 
PART IV—NON-COMPLIANCE AND PENALTIES 
10. — 1) Where a person fails to comply with a duty or obligation imposed by 
Confidentiality these Regulations, the Service shall impose an administrative penalty of N10,000,000.00 for 
of the CRS 
each of such failure, and Nl,000,000.00 for every month in which the failure continues.  
Information 
Return. 
Non- 
Compliance 
and 
Administrative 
Penalties.  
B 9 
(2) Where a Reporting Financial Institution fails to file an Information Return as and when 
required under regulation 5 of these Regulations, the Service shall impose an administrative 
penalty of N10,000,000.00 in the first month in which the failure occurs and Nl,000,000.00 for 
each subsequent month the failure continues. 
(3) Where a person makes a false statement, false report or false declaration or gives any 
false information or omission in respect of any information required to be included on an 
Information Return under regulation 5 of these Regulations, the Service shall impose an 
administrative penalty of N5,000,000.00 and such person may also be liable to penalties as 
prescribed in the Act. 
(4) Where a Financial Institution or a person fails to comply with the requirement of the 
Service in the exercise or performance of its powers or duties under these Regulations, the Service 
shall impose an administrative penalty of Nl,000,000.00 in the first instance and N100,000.00 for 
each subsequent day the failure continues. 
(5) Where a Reporting Financial Institution fails to keep records in accordance with 
regulation 6 of these Regulations, the Service shall impose an administrative penalty of 
N10,000,000.00 in the first month in which the failure occurs and N1,000,000.00 for each 
subsequent month the failure continues. 
11. —(1) Penalties shall not be imposed under regulation 10 of these Regulations where 
the Service is satisfied that there is a reasonable excuse for such omission or failure. 
(2) For the purposes of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation, neither of the following is a 
reasonable excuse— 
Exemption 
(。)that there is an insufficiency of funds to do something ; or 
from 
(B) that a person relies upon another person to do something. 
Administrative 
(3) Where a person had a reasonable excuse fbr a failure but the excuse has 
Penalties. 
ceased, the person shall be treated as having continued to have the excuse, provided 
the failure is remedied within a reasonable time after the excuse ceased. 
PART V—SUPPLEMENTARY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS 
12. Where a Financial Institution or any person enters into any arrangement 
or engages in a practice, and it can reasonably be inferred that the main purpose or 
one of the main purposes of such arrangement, is to avoid an obligation imposed 
under these Regulations, such Financial Institution or person shall be subject to the 
obligation imposed under these Regulations, as where the person had not entered 
into the arrangement or engaged in the practice.
Anti-
Avoidance.  
B 10 
Interpretation. 13.―1) In these Regulations and for the purposes of applying the Guidelines, unless the 
context otherwise requires一 
“■ML" means Anti-Money Laundering ; 
“CW means the Common Reporting Standard contained in Part II.B of the 
Standard for Automatic Exchange ofFinancial Account Information in Tax Matters 
approved by the Council of the OECD on 15th July 2014, as set out in part II of the 
Guidelines, as may, from time to time, be issued by the Service ; 
“CRS Commentaries" means the Commentaries on the CRS contained in Part III.B 
of the Standard for Automatic Exchange ofFinancial Account Information in Tax 
Matters approved by the Council of the OECD on 15th July 2014, as set out in the part 
III of the Guidelines, as may, from time to time, be issued by the Service ; 
“Excluded Account" means an account as defined in sub-paragraphs C(17)(a) to (f) 
of Section VIII of the Guidelines ; 
“The Guidelines" means the detailed plans of implementation and compliance 
contained in and known as "Income Tax (Common Reporting Standard) 
55
Implementation and Compliance Guidelines comprising the CRS and the CRS 
Commentaries or as may from time to time be issued by the Service ; 
^Information Returrf" means a report, setting out certain information as specified 
by these Regulations, which a Reporting Financial Institution is required to file with 
the Service ; 
“KYC means Know Your Customer ; 
“Minister" means the Minister charged with the responsibility for Finance ; 
"Nigeria Financial Institution means— 
(a) any Financial Institution that is resident in Nigeria, but excludes any branch 
of that Financial Institution that is located outside of Nigeria ; and 
(Z?) any branch of a Financial Institution that is not resident in Nigeria, where 
that branch is located in Nigeria ; 
“NFE" means Non-Financial Entity or any entity that is not a Financial Institution; 
^Non-Reporting Financial Institutiorf" means a Financial Institution as defined in 
sub-paragraphs B(l)(。)，(8), (d) and (e) of Section VIII of the CRS as contained 
in Part II of the Guidelines ; 
Participating Jurisdictiorf" means a jurisdiction as defined in Section VIII(A)(2) 
of the CRS as set out in Part II to the Guidelines ; 
B 11 
^Pre-existing Account^ means— 
(<7)a Financial Account maintained by a Reporting Financial Institution as of 30th June 2019 
; or 
(方)any Financial Account of an Account Holder, regardless of the date such Financial 
Account was opened where : 
(/) the Account Holder also holds with the Reporting Financial Institution (or with a Related 
Entity within the same jurisdiction as the Reporting Financial Institution) a Financial Account 
that is a Pre-existing Account under sub-paragraph (。)above ; 
(z7) the Reporting Financial Institution (and, as applicable, the Related Entity within the 
same jurisdiction as the Reporting Financial Institution) treats both of the aforementioned 
Financial Accounts, and any other Financial Accounts of the Account Holder that are treated as 
Pre-existing Accounts under sub-paragraph (b) as a single Financial Account for purposes of 
satisfying the standards ofknowledge requirements set forth in paragraph A of Section VII of the 
CRS, and fbr purposes of determining the balance or value of any of the Financial Accounts 
when applying any of the account thresholds ; 
(zzz) with respect to a Financial Account that is subject to AML/KYC procedures, the 
Reporting Financial Institution is permitted to satisfy such AML/KYC procedures fbr the 
Financial Account by relying upon the AML/KYC procedures performed fbr the Pre-existing 
Account described in sub-paragraph (&) above ; and 
(zv) the opening of the Financial Account does not require the provision of new, additional 
or amended customer information by the Account Holder other than fbr purposes of the CRS ; 
"'Reportable Jurisdiction" means— 
(。)any jurisdiction other than Nigeria or the United States of America; 
(8) a jurisdiction with which an international agreement providing for the automatic 
exchange of information fbr tax purposes is in effect between Nigeria and that other jurisdiction, 
as may be contained in a list published by the Service, from time to time ; or 
(c) a jurisdiction as defined in Section VIII(D)(4) of the Guidelines ; and 
"Reporting Financial Institution means any Nigeria Financial Institution that is not a Non-
Reporting Financial Institution. 
(2) Subject to sub-regulations (1) and (3) of this regulation and fbr the purposes of applying the 
CRS and the CRS Commentaries, any term which is defined in the CRS or in the CRS Commentaries 
but not in these Regulations has the same meaning in these Regulations as in the CRS or in the CRS 
Commentaries as set out in the Guidelines. 
(3) For the purposes of applying these Regulations and the Guidelines— 
(a) all monetary expression in USD shall be read to include its equivalent in Naira; 
(b) “Entity" means a legal person or a legal arrangement, such as corporation, 
partnership, trust or foundation; 
(c) an Entity is a "Related Entity” of another Entity where— 
(/) either Entity controls the other Entity ;  
12 
(if) the two Entities are under common control; or 
(Hi) the two Entities are - Investment Entities as described in subparagraph A(6)(6) 
of Section VIII of the CRS ; under common management; and such management fulfils 
the due diligence obligations of such Investment Entities. 
For this purpose, control includes direct or indirect ownership of more than 50% of the 
vote and value in an Entity ; 
(d) the dates specified in the CRS in Part II of the Guidelines shall be read as : 
(0 in sub-paragraph C (6) of Section 111, 31st December 2019 ; 
(n) in paragraph D of Section III, 31st December 2019 in respect of a High Value 
Account and 31st December 2020 in respect of a Lower Value Account; 
(Hi) in paragraph A of Section V 31st December 2019 ; 
(/v) in paragraph B of Section V 31 st December 2019 in both the first and second 
instances; 
(v) in sub-paragraph E(l)of Section V, 31st December 2019 in the first insunce and 
31st December 2020 in the second instance ; 
(v/) in sub-paragraph E (2) of Section V, 30th June 2019 ; 
(V//)in sub-paragraph B(8X，) of Section VIIL 1st July 2019; 
(v/i/) in sub-paragraph B(9X。)of Section VIII, 1st July 2019 and in sub-para^aph 
of Section VIII, 31st December 2019 ; 
(ir) in sub-paragraph C (9) of Section VIII, 30th June 2019 ; 
(x) in sub-paragraph C (10) of Section VIII. 1st July 2019 ; (X/) in sub-paragraph 
C (14) of Section VIII, 30th June 2019 ; 
(xiT) in sub-paragraph C (15) of Section VIII, 30th June 2019 ; and (xiti) in sub-
paragraph C (17) of Section Vlll, 1st July 2019. 
The above specified dates may be subject to such modifications by the Service as it 
may deem an>ropnate. 
14. These Regulaiions shall come into force 1st July, 2019. 
B 13 
15. These Regulations may be cited as the Income Tax (Common Reporting 
Short Title. 
Standard) Regulations, 2019. 
MADE at Abuja this 1 st day of July, 2019. 
TUNDE FOWLER 
Executive Chairman 
Federal Inland Revenue Service 