SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE 
COMMISSION NIGERIA 
 
ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING/ 
COMBATING FINANCING OF 
TERRORISM (AML/CFT) 
COMPLIANCE 
MANUAL 
FOR 
 
CAPITAL MARKET OPERATORS 
 
2010 
 
 
 
1	  
	  TABLE OF CONTENTS       pages 
 
PREAMBLE           2 
DEFINITION OF TERMS         3 
 
PART A 
1.  AML/CFT INSTITUTIONAL POLICY FRAME WORK    12 
a.  General Guidelines on Institutional Policy      
b.  AML/CFT Compliance Officer Designation and Duties    
c. Cooperation with relevant Authorities      
d. Scope of Offensive Proceeds 
 
PART B 
2. CLIENT DUE DILIGENCE (CDD)       15 
a.  General 
b.  CDD measures 
c.  Higher Risk Categories of clients 
d.  Lower Risk Clients, Transactions or products 
e.  Timing of Verification 
f. Failure to Complete CDD 
g.  Existing Clients 
3. Definition of Politically Exposed Person (PEP)     23 
4. New Technologies and Non-Face-To-Face Transactions   24 
5. Reliance on Intermediaries and Third Parties on CDD Functions  25 
6. Maintenance of Records on Transactions     25 
7. Attention on Complex and Unusual Large Transactions   26 
8. Compliance, Monitoring and Response to Suspicious Transactions  27 
         Internal Controls, Compliance and Audit 
9. Sanctions          29 
10.  Shell Banks          30 
11.  Suspicious Transactions “Red Flags”      30 
a.  potential transactions perceived or identified as suspicious 
2	  
	  b. Terrorist financing ‘Red Flags’ 
c. other unusual or suspicious activities 
d. other forms of reporting  
12.  Attention for Higher Risk Countries      32 
13.  AML/CFT Employee-education and Training Programme   33 
14.  Monitoring Of Employee Conduct      34 
15.  Protection of Staff who Report Violations     34 
16.  Additional Areas of AML/CFT Risks      34 
17. Additional Procedures and Mitigants      35 
18. Testing for the Adequacy of the AML/CFT Compliance   35 
19. Formal Board Approval of the AML/CFT Compliance    35 
20. Terrorist financing offences       35 
21. Culture of Compliance        36 
 
 PART C 
22. GUIDANCE ON KYC (Know your Customer)     37 
a. Duty to Obtain Identification Evidence 
b. Nature and Level of the Business 
 
23. ESTABLISHING IDENTITY        38 
a. Identification Evidence 
b. What is Identity? 
c. When Must Identity be Verified? 
d. Whose Identity Must Be Verified? 
e. Timing of Identification Requirements 
f. Cancellation & Cooling Off Rights 
g. Redemptions/Surrenders 
 
24. IDENTIFICATION PROCEDURES       44 
a. General Principles 
b. New Business for Existing Clients 
c. Certification of Identification Documents 
3	  
	  d. Recording of Identification Evidence 
e. Concession in respect of Payment made by Post 
 
25.  ESTABLISHING IDENTITY       47 
A. Private Individuals clients       48 
   General Information 
1.  Private Individuals Resident in Nigeria    48 
a. Documenting Evidence of Identity 
b. Physical Checks on Private Individuals Resident in Nigeria 
c. Electronic Checks 
2. Private Individuals not Resident in Nigeria   53 
     Private Individuals not Resident in Nigeria: Supply of   
     Information 
3.  Information to establish identity     54 
4. Non-Face-to-Face Identification     61 
5. Establishing identity for refugees and Asylum Seekers  62 
6. Establishing identity for Students and Minors   62 
 
B.  Quasi Corporate Clients       63  
     i. Establishing Identity –Trust , Nominee and Fiduciaries 
    ii. Offshore Trusts 
    iii. Conventional Family and Absolute Nigerian Trusts 
   iv.   Receipt and Payment of Funds 
   v.   Executorship Accounts 
   vi.   Unincorporated Business/Partnerships 
C.  Pure Corporate Clients       68 
      1. General Principle        68 
     2. Non Face-to-Face Business      69 
     3. Low Risks Corporate Business     70 
         a. Public quoted companies 
                 b. Private/Public unquoted Companies 
   4. Higher Risk Business relating to private/public unquoted  71 
        Companies. 
4	  
	     5. Foreign Capital Market Operator     72 
  6. Other Institutions       74 
 
26.  INTERMEDIARIES OR OTHER THIRD PARTIES TO VERIFY IDENTITY OR TO 
INTRODUCE BUSINESS        76 
A.  Who to rely upon and the circumstances 
B. Introductions from Authorised Financial Intermediaries 
C.  Written Applications 
D. Non-Written Application 
E.  Introductions from Foreign Intermediaries 
F.  Corporate Group Introductions 
G. Business Conducted by Agents 
H. Correspondent Relationship 
I. Acquisition o f One Financial Institution/Business By Another 
 
27.  RECEIVING CAPITAL MARKET OPERATORS AND AGENTS   81 
A. Vulnerability of Receiving Bankers and Agents to Money Laundering 
B. Who shall be identified 
C.  Applications Received via Brokers 
D. Applications Received from Foreign Brokers 
E. Multiple Family Applications 
F.  Linked Transactions 
 
28.  EXEMPTION FROM IDENTIFICATION PROCEDURES    84 
 
29.  SANCTIONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH KYC    85 
 
 
 
 
 
5	  
	  PREAMBLE 
Section 13 (n), (aa) and (dd) of the Investments and Securities Act 2007, empowers 
the Securities and Exchange Commission (Commission) to protect the integrity of the 
securities market against all forms of abuse, fraudulent and unfair trade practices. 
Given the prominence Anti–Money Laundering/Combating Financing of Terrorism 
(AML/CFT) issues have assumed in International financial circle and the risks they pose 
to the financial market globally and Nigeria in particular, a comprehensive and stringent 
provision to fight this menace has become imperative. 
Pursuant to the above, the Commission has issued this compliance manual to guide 
Capital Market Operators (CMOs) in the implementation of the Know Your Customer 
(KYC) and Customer Due Diligence (CDD) requirements for the capital market. The 
manual has been enriched by the enabling AML/CFT legislation enacted by Nigeria, 
using the FATF Recommendations, as a benchmark and some international best 
practices documents. 
The manual would not only minimize the risk faced by the Market on laundering the 
proceeds of crime but will also provide protection against fraud, reputational and other 
financial market risks. Consequently, all Capital Market Operators are required to adopt 
a risk – based approach in the identification and management of their AML/CFT risk in 
line with the requirements of this manual.  
Nigerian Capital Market Operators should note that these AML/CFT guidelines have 
prescribed sanctions for non-compliance with this Manual and other relevant anti-
money laundering laws and regulations concerning CDD issues, non-rendition of 
prescribed reports as well as failure to keep appropriate records. It is, therefore, in their 
best interest to ensure compliance at all times consistent with the prescriptions 
contained herein. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
6	  
	  DEFINITION OF TERMS  
For the proper understanding of this Manual, certain terms used are defined as  
Follows:  
Applicant for Business:  The person or company seeking to establish a  
    ‘business relationship’ or an occasional clients  
     undertaking a ‘one-off’ transaction whose identity  
    must be verified.   
 
Beneficial owner:  Beneficial owner refers to the natural person(s) who  
    ultimately owns or controls a clients and/or the  
    person on whose behalf a transaction is being  
    conducted. It also incorporates those persons who  
    exercise ultimate effective control over a legal person  
    or arrangement.  
 
Beneficiary:   Beneficiary owner refers to those natural persons, or  
    groups of natural persons who receive charitable,  
    humanitarian or other types of assistance through the  
    services of the Non Profit Organizations. They include all  
    trusts (other than charitable or statutory permitted non- 
    charitable trusts) must have beneficiaries, who may include  
    the settlor, and a maximum time, known as the perpetuity  
    period, normally of 100 years.  
 
Business Relationship: Business relationship’ is any arrangement between  
    the Capital Market Operator and the applicant for   
    business which purpose is to facilitate the carrying out of  
    transactions between the parties on a ‘frequent, habitual or  
    regular’ basis.  
 
Capital Market Operator:  means any person (individual or corporate) duly 
registered by the Commission to perform specific 
functions in the Capital Market.   
Cooling off rights:            means the rights of an investor to return products 
purchased and get a refund if the individual changes 
his mind.  
7	  
	  Cross-border transaction: Cross-border transaction means any transaction 
 where the originator and beneficiary Operators are 
 located in different jurisdictions. This term also refers 
 to any chain of transaction that has at least one 
 cross-border element.  
Designated categories of offences: Designated categories of offences means:  
• participation in an organised crime group and  
          racketeering;  
• terrorism, including terrorist financing;  
• trafficking in human beings and migrant 
smuggling;  
• sexual exploitation, including sexual exploitation of  
          children;  
• illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic 
substances;  
• illicit arms trafficking;  
• illicit trafficking in stolen and other goods;  
• corruption and bribery;  
• fraud;  
• counterfeiting currency;  
• counterfeiting and piracy of products;  
• environmental crime;  
• murder, grievous bodily injury;  
• kidnapping, illegal restraint and hostage-taking;  
• robbery or theft;  
• smuggling;  
• extortion;  
• forgery;  
• piracy; and  
• insider trading and market manipulation.  
 
Designated non-financial businesses and professions: Designated non-financial  
       businesses and professions means:  
• Casinos (which also includes internet 
casinos).  
• Real estate agents.  
• Dealers in precious metals.  
• Dealers in precious stones.  
8	  
	  • Legal practitioners, notary public and 
accountants – this refers to sole 
practitioners, partners or employed 
professionals within professional 
firms. It is not meant to refer to 
“internal”  professionals that are 
employees of other types of 
businesses, nor to professionals 
working for government agencies, 
who may already be subject to 
measures that would combat money 
laundering.  
• Trust and Company Service 
providers  refers to all persons or 
businesses that are not covered 
elsewhere under these 
Recommendations, and which as a 
business, provide any of the 
following services to third parties:  
-   acting as a formation agent of         
    legal persons;  
- acting as (or arranging for 
another person to act as) a 
director or secretary of a 
company, a partner of a 
partnership, or a similar position 
in relation to other legal persons;  
-    providing a registered office;  
business address or   
accommodation, correspondence 
or administrative address for a 
company, a partnership or any 
other legal person or 
arrangement;  
 
- acting as (or arranging for 
another person to act as)a 
trustee of an express trust;  
9	  
	  -     acting as (or arranging for    
another person to act as) a 
nominee shareholder for another 
person.  
Domestic transfer: Domestic transfer means any wire transfer 
where the originator and beneficiary 
institutions are both located in Nigeria.  
This term therefore refers to any chain of wire 
transfers that takes place entirely within 
Nigeria’s borders, even though the system 
used to effect the wire transfer may be located 
in another jurisdiction.  
False disclosure: False disclosure refers to a misrepresentation 
of the value of currency or bearer negotiable 
instruments being transported, or a 
misrepresentation of other relevant data which 
is asked for in the disclosure or otherwise 
requested by the authorities.  
The FATF Recommendations:   The FATF Recommendations refers to the  
      Forty Recommendations and to the Nine  
      Special Recommendations on Terrorist   
      Financing.  
Funds Transfer:  The terms funds transfer refers to any 
transaction carried out on behalf of an 
originator (both natural and legal) through a 
capital Market Operator by electronic 
means with a view to making an amount of 
money available to a beneficiary through 
another capital Market Operator. The 
originator and the beneficiary may be the same 
person.  
Legal persons: Legal persons refer to bodies corporate 
foundations, partnerships, or associations, or 
any similar bodies that can establish a 
permanent clients relationship with a capital 
10	  
	  Market Operator or otherwise own property. 
Non-profit Organizations/Non-governmental  
Organizations:  The term non-profit organization/non 
governmental organizations refers to a legal 
entity or organisation that primarily engages in 
raising or disbursing funds for purposes such 
as charitable, religious, cultural, educational, 
social or fraternal purposes, or for the carrying 
out of other types of  good works.  
Originator: The originator is the account holder, or where 
there is no account, the person (natural or 
legal) that places the order with the capital 
Market Operator to perform the Capital 
Market Transaction.  
One-off Transaction:  A ‘one-off transaction’ means any transaction 
carried out other than in the course of an 
established business relationship.  
 It is important to determine whether an 
applicant for business is undertaking a one-off 
transaction or whether the transaction is or will 
be a part of a business relationship as this can 
affect the identification requirements.  
Payable through account:  Payable through account refers to 
correspondent accounts that are used directly 
by third parties to transact business on their 
own behalf.  
 Physical presence:    means meaningful mind and management  
       located within a country. The existence simply  
       of a local agent or low level staff does not  
       constitute physical presence.  
 
Proceeds:  Proceeds refer to any property derived from or 
obtained, directly or indirectly, through the 
commission of an offence.  
11	  
	  Property:  Property means assets of every kind, whether 
corporeal or incorporeal, moveable or 
immoveable, tangible or intangible, and legal 
documents or instruments evidencing title to, 
or interest in such assets.  
Relevant authority:                  Means any persons or organization which has 
mandate over your activity as an individual. 
Risk: All references to risk in this Manual refer to the 
risk of money laundering and/or terrorist 
financing.  
Settlor:  Settlors are persons or companies who transfer 
ownership of their assets to trustees by means 
of a trust deed. Where the trustees have some 
discretion as to the investment and distribution 
of the trusts assets, the deed may be 
accompanied by a non-legally binding letter 
setting out what the settlor wishes to be done 
with the assets.  
Shell bank:  Shell bank means a bank that has no physical 
presence in the country in which it is 
incorporated and licensed, and which is 
unaffiliated with a regulated financial services 
group that is subject to effective consolidated 
supervision.  
 
Suspicious Transaction:               For the purpose of this Manual, a suspicious 
 transaction may be defined as one which is 
 unusual because of its size, volume, type or 
 pattern or otherwise suggestive of known 
 money laundering methods. It includes such a 
 transaction that is inconsistent with a client’s 
 known, legitimate business or personal 
 activities or normal business for that type of 
 account or that lacks an obvious economic 
 rationale. 
   
12	  
	  Terrorist:  It refers to any natural person who: (i) 
commits, or attempts to commit, terrorist acts 
by any means, directly or indirectly, unlawfully 
and willfully; (ii) participates as an accomplice 
in terrorist acts; (iii) organises or directs others 
to commit terrorist acts; or (iv) contributes to 
the commission of terrorist acts by a group of 
persons acting with a common purpose where 
the contribution is made intentionally and with 
the aim of furthering the terrorist act or with 
the knowledge of the intention of the group to 
commit a terrorist act.  
Terrorist act:     A terrorist act includes but are not limited to:  
(i) An act which constitutes an offence within 
the scope of, and as defined in one of the 
following treaties: Convention for the 
Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft 
(1970), Convention for the Suppression of 
Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil 
Aviation (1971), Convention on the Prevention  
and Punishment of Crimes against 
Internationally Protected Persons, including 
Diplomatic Agents (1973), International 
Convention against the Taking of Hostages 
(1979), Convention on the Physical Protection 
of Nuclear Material (1980), Protocol for the  
Suppression of Unlawful Acts of Violence at 
Airports Serving International Civil Aviation, 
supplementary to the Convention for the 
Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the 
Safety of Civil Aviation (1988), Convention for 
the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the  
Safety of Maritime Navigation (1988), Protocol 
for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against 
the Safety of Fixed Platforms located on the 
Continental Shelf (1988), and the International 
Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist 
Bombings (1997); and  
13	  
	  (ii) any other act intended to cause death or 
serious bodily injury to a civilian, or to any 
other person not taking an active part in the 
hostilities in a situation of armed conflict, when 
the purpose of such act, by its nature or 
context, is to intimidate a population, or to 
compel a Government or an international 
organisation to do or to abstain from doing any 
act.  
 
Terrorist financing:  Terrorist financing (FT) includes the financing 
of terrorist acts, and of terrorists and terrorist 
organisations.  
Terrorist financing offence:  A terrorist financing (FT) offence refers not 
only to the primary offence or offences, but 
also to ancillary offences.  
Terrorist organization:  Refers to any group of terrorists that: (i) 
commits, or attempts to commit, terrorist acts 
by any means, directly or indirectly, unlawfully 
and wilfully; (ii) participates as an accomplice 
in terrorist acts; (iii) organises or directs others 
to commit terrorist acts; or (iv) contributes to 
the commission of terrorist acts by a group of 
persons acting with a common purpose where 
the contribution is made intentionally and with  
the aim of furthering the terrorist act or with 
the knowledge of the intention of the group to 
commit a terrorist act.  
Those who finance Terrorism:  Those who finance terrorism refers to any 
person, group, undertaking or other entity that 
provides or collects, by any means, directly or 
indirectly, funds or other assets that may be 
used, in full or in part, to facilitate the 
commission of terrorist acts, or to any persons 
or entities acting on behalf of, or at the 
direction of such persons, groups, undertakings 
14	  
	  or other entities. This includes those who 
provide or collect funds or other assets with 
the intention that they shall be used or in the 
knowledge that they are to be used, in full or 
in part, in order to carry out terrorist acts.  
Trustee: Trustees, include paid professionals or 
companies or unpaid persons who hold the 
assets in a trust fund separate from their own 
assets. They invest and dispose of them in 
accordance with the settlor’s trust deed, taking 
account of any letter of wishes. There may also 
be a protector who may have power to veto 
the trustees ‘proposals or remove them, and/or 
a custodian trustee, who holds the assets to 
the order of the managing trustees. 
Unique identifier:  A unique identifier refers to any unique 
combination of letters, numbers or symbols 
that refer to a specific originator. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15	  
	  PART A 
1. AML/CFT INSTITUTIONAL POLICY FRAMEWORK 
     A.  General Guidelines on Institutional Policy  
    i.   Every Capital Market Operator shall adopt policies stating its  commitment 
 to comply with AML/CFT obligations under the law and regulatory 
 directives and to actively prevent any transaction that otherwise facilitates 
 criminal activity or terrorism.  
    ii. Every Capital Market Operator shall formulate and implement internal 
 controls and other procedures that will deter criminals from using its 
 facilities for money laundering and terrorist financing and to ensure that 
 its obligations are always met.  
       B.   AML/CFT Compliance Officer Designation and Duties  
Each Capital Market Operator shall designate its AML/CFT Compliance    
Officer with the relevant competence, authority and independence to 
implement the institution’s AML/CFT compliance programme.  
    The duties of the AML/CFT Compliance Officer, among others, include: 
 i. Developing an AML/CFT Compliance Programme;  
 ii.     Receiving and vetting suspicious transaction reports from staff;  
 iii.    Filing suspicious transaction reports with the NFIU;  
 iv. Rendering “nil” reports with the NFIU, where necessary to ensure 
 compliance;  
 v. Ensuring that the Capital Market Operators compliance 
 programme is implemented;  
 vi.     Coordinating the training of staff in AML/CFT awareness, detection 
 methods and reporting requirements; and  
 vii.     Serving both as liaison officer with the SEC and NFIU and a   
  point-of contact for all employees on issues relating to money  
  laundering and  terrorist financing.  
 
 
16	  
	    C.  Cooperation with Relevant Authorities  
  Each Capital Market Operator is required to state that it will comply   
 promptly with all the requests made in pursuant with the law and provide 
 information to the SEC, NFIU and other relevant government agencies on  AML 
 and CFT matters. 
 where there is a request for Information on money laundering and terrorist 
 financing each Capital Market Operator shall do the following:  
 
  (a)  Search immediately the institution’s records to determine whether it 
 maintains or has maintained any account for or has engaged in any 
 transaction with each individual, entity or organisation named in 
 the request;  
 
  (b)  Report promptly to the requesting authority the outcome of the  
  search; and  
 (c) Protect the security and confidentiality of such requests.  
   D. SCOPE OF OFFENSIVE PROCEEDS  
 A.  Capital Market Operators shall identify and report to the NFIU, the 
 proceeds of crime derived from the following: 
  i.  Participation in an organized crime groups and     
   racketeering; 
  ii.  Terrorism, including terrorist financing; 
  iii.  Trafficking in human beings and migrant smuggling; 
  iv.  Sexual exploitation, including sexual exploitation of    
   children; 
  v.  Illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic    
   substances; 
  vi.  Illicit arms trafficking; 
  vii.  Illicit trafficking in stolen and other goods; 
  viii.  Corruption and Bribery; 
  ix.  Fraud; 
17	  
	    x.  Counterfeiting currency; 
  xi.  Counterfeiting and piracy of products; 
  xii.  Environmental crime; 
  xiii.  Murder, grievous bodily injury; 
  xiv.  Kidnapping, illegal restraint and hostage taking; 
  xv.  Robbery or theft; 
  xvi.  Smuggling; 
  xvii.  Extortion; 
  xviii.  Forgery; 
  xix.  Piracy; and 
  xx.  Insider trading and market manipulation. 
 
B.  Measures to Be Taken Against ML/TF  
 Capital Market Operators secrecy and confidentiality laws shall not in 
 any way, inhibit the implementation of the requirements in this guideline 
 in view of the provisions in the EFCC Act; MLP Act and ISA, giving the 
 relevant authorities the power to access information to properly perform 
 their functions in combating money laundering and financing of terrorism; 
 the sharing of information between relevant authorities, either 
 domestically or internationally; and the sharing of information between 
 Capital Market Operators, where this is required or necessary.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18	  
	  PART B 
 
2. CUSTOMER DUE DILIGENCE (CDD)  
A. General 
 i.    Capital Market Operators shall not be permitted to keep 
 anonymous accounts or accounts in fictitious names, provided that 
 where nominee accounts are maintained, details of the beneficial 
 owners shall be provided on request; 
 ii.   Capital Market Operators shall undertake clients due diligence 
 (CDD) measures when:  
a.  business relationship is established;  
b. carrying out occasional transactions above the threshold of 
 N250,000 or as may be determined by SEC from time to 
 time, including where the transaction is carried out in a 
 single operation or several operations that appear to be 
 linked; and 
  c. carrying out occasional transactions that are wire transfers,    
  including those applicable to cross-border and domestic  
  transfers between Capital Market Operators and when  
  credit  or debit cards are used as a payment system to effect 
  money transfer.  
 It does not, however, include the following types of   
  payment:  
i.   any transfer flowing from a transaction carried out  
  using a  credit or debit card  so long as the credit or  
  debit card number accompanying such transfers does  
  flow from the transactions such as withdrawals from a 
  bank account through an ATM machine, cash   
  advances from a credit card or payment for goods.  
ii. Capital Market Operator-to-Capital Market   
   Operator transfers and settlements where both the  
   originator and the beneficiary are Capital Market  
   Operators acting on their own behalf.  
19	  
	  d. there is a suspicion of money laundering or terrorist 
 financing, regardless of any exemptions or any other 
 thresholds referred to in this Manual; or  
 e. there are doubts about the veracity or adequacy of 
 previously obtained clients identification data; 
Provided that, a Capital Market Operator shall not be required (after 
obtaining all the necessary documents and being so satisfied) to 
repeatedly perform identification and verification exercise every time a 
client conducts a transaction.  
     
 B. CUSTOMER DUE DILIGENCE (CDD) MEASURES  
    i.      Capital Market Operators shall: 
             a.      carry out the full range of the CDD  measures in this manual. 
             b.  Identify all their clients and verify their identities using reliable,  
 independently sourced documents, data or information.  
   ii. The type of clients’ information to be obtained and identification data to 
be   used to verify the information shall include the following:  
In respect of clients that are legal persons, Capital Market Operator Shall:  
  a.    verify any person purporting to have been authorized to act on 
behalf of such a clients by obtaining evidence of his/her identity 
and verifying the identity of such a person; and  
  b.   verify the status of the legal person by obtaining proof of 
incorporation from the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) or 
similar evidence of establishment or existence and any other 
relevant information.  
    iii. Capital Market Operators shall identify a beneficial-owner and take 
reasonable measures to verify his/her identity using relevant information 
or data obtained from a reliable source to satisfy themselves that they 
know who the beneficial-owner is.  
    iv. Capital Market Operators shall in respect of all clients determine whether a 
client is acting on behalf of another person. Where the client is acting on 
20	  
	  behalf of another person, the Capital market operator is required to take 
reasonable steps to obtain sufficient identification-data and to verify the 
identity of that other person.  
    v.   Capital Market Operators shall take reasonable measures in respect of 
clients that are legal persons to:  
    a. understand the ownership and control structure of such a client;       
and  
    b.   determine the natural persons that ultimately own or control the    
client.  
    vi.   The natural persons include those persons who exercise ultimate and 
effective control over the legal person. Examples of types of measures 
needed to satisfactorily perform this function include:  
 
a. For companies -The natural persons are those who own the 
controlling interests and those who comprise the mind and 
management of	   the	  company;  
 
b. For trusts – The natural persons are the settlor, the trustee and 
person exercising effective control over the trust and the 
beneficiaries.  
 
           vii.    Where the client or the owner of the controlling interest is a public   
  company subject to regulatory disclosure requirements (i.e. a public  
  company listed on a recognized securities exchange) it is not necessary to 
  identify and verify the identity of the shareholders of such a public   
  company.  
  viii.  Capital Market Operators shall obtain information on the purpose and  
  intended nature of the business relationship of their potential clients.  
  ix.   Capital Market Operators shall conduct ongoing due diligence on the  
 business relationship as stated by the clients.  
   x.   The ongoing due diligence includes scrutinizing the transactions undertaken 
by the  client throughout the course of the Capital Market Operator/ client 
relationship to ensure that the transactions being conducted are consistent 
with the Capital Market Operator’s knowledge of the client, its business and 
risk profiles, and the source of funds (where necessary).  
21	  
	   xi.  Capital Market Operators shall ensure that documents, data or information 
collected under the CDD-process are kept up-to-date and relevant by 
undertaking reviews of existing records, particularly the records in respect 
of higher-risk business-relationships or clients’ categories.  
xii. For clients that may require additional caution to be exercised when 
transacting with them, activities in the client’s accounts shall be monitored 
on a regular basis for suspicious transactions. 
xiii. While extra care shall be exercised in such cases, the Capital Market 
Operator shall refuse to do business with such clients or automatically 
classify them as high risk and subject them to an enhanced customer 
process.  In this regard, Capital Market Operators shall weigh all the 
circumstances of the particular situation and assess whether there is a 
higher than normal risk of money laundering or financial terrorism. 
 xiv. A Capital Market Operator shall consider reclassifying a client as higher risk 
if following initial acceptance of the clients, the pattern of account activity 
of the clients does not fit in with the Capital Market Operator’s knowledge 
of the clients. A suspicious transaction report shall also be considered. 
 xv. A Capital Market Operator shall not commence business relation or perform 
any transaction, or in the case of existing business relation, shall terminate 
such business relation if the clients fails to comply with the clients due 
diligence requirements. A Capital Market Operator shall also consider 
lodging a suspicious transaction report with the NFIU. 
 C.  HIGHER RISK CATEGORIES OF CLIENTS  
    i.  The basic principle of a risk based approach is that reporting institutions 
 adopt an enhanced CDD process for higher risk categories of clients, 
 business relationships or transactions. Similarly, simplified CDD process is 
 adopted for lower risk categories of clients, business relationships or 
 transactions.   
    ii.  for determining a clients risk profile, the following are examples of high 
 risk clients that a reporting institution shall consider exercising greater 
 caution when approving the opening of account or when conducting 
 transactions: 
 a.  Non-resident clients;  
22	  
	   b. Clients from locations known for its high crime rate (e.g. drug 
 production, trafficking, smuggling);  
 c.  Clients from or in countries or jurisdictions which do not or 
 insufficiently apply the FATF Recommendations (such as 
 jurisdictions designated as Non Cooperative Countries and 
 Territories  (NCCT) by the FAFT or those known to the reporting 
 institution to have inadequate AML/CFT laws and regulations);  
 d.  Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs) and persons/ companies related 
 to them;  
 e. Complex legal arrangements such as unregulated investment 
 vehicles/special purpose vehicles (SPV); or 
 f. Companies that have nominee-shareholders; 
   iii. Upon determining clients as “high-risk”, the reporting capital market 
 operator shall undertake enhanced CDD process on the clients which shall 
 include enquiries on: 
a.   the purpose for opening an account; 
b.   the level and nature of trading activities intended; 
c.   the ultimate beneficial owners; 
d.   the source of funds; 
e.   senior management’s approval for opening the account;  
iv. The Capital Market Operator shall continue to undertake enhanced 
monitoring of the business relationship. 
D. Lower Risk Clients, Transactions or Products  
i. Where there are low risks, Capital Market Operators shall apply 
 reduced or simplified CDD measures when identifying and verifying the 
 identity of their clients and the beneficial-owners.  
ii. There are low risks in circumstances where; 
a. the risk of money laundering or terrorist financing is lower.  
23	  
	  b. information on the identity of the clients and the beneficial owner  
   of a client is publicly available.  
c. adequate checks and controls exist elsewhere in national systems.  
iii. The following maybe considered to be low risk clients:  
 a. Capital Market Operators provided they are subject to 
 requirements   for   the combat of money laundering and terrorist 
 financing which are consistent with the provisions of this Manual 
 and are supervised for compliance with them;  
 b. Public companies (listed on a securities exchange or similar 
 situations) that are subject to regulatory disclosure requirements;  
           c.       Government ministries and parastatals /enterprises;  
           d.  Life insurance policies where the annual premium and single 
 monthly premium are within the threshold determined by NAICOM;  
  e. Insurance policies for pension schemes if there is no surrender- 
  value clause and the policy cannot be used as collateral;  
  f. A pension, superannuation or similar scheme that provides   
  retirement    benefits to employees, where contributions are made  
  by way of deduction  from wages and the scheme rules do not  
  permit the assignment of a  member‘s interest under the scheme;  
  and  
  g. Beneficial-owners of pooled-accounts held by Designated Non- 
  Financial   Businesses and Professions (DNFBPs) provided that they 
  are subject to  requirements to combat money laundering and  
  terrorist financing  consistent with the provisions of Money   
  Laundering (Prohibition) Act.  
iv.      Capital Market Operators that apply simplified or reduced CDD measures to 
clients’ resident abroad are required to limit such to clients in countries that 
have effectively implemented the FATF Recommendations.  
v.      Capital Market Operators shall adopt CDD measures on a risk sensitive- 
  basis as provided for in this manual. Capital Market Operators shall   
  determine in each case whether the risks are lower or not, having regard to 
  the type of clients, product, transaction or the location of the clients. 
24	  
	  E. TIMING OF VERIFICATION  
i.      Capital Market Operators shall verify the identity of the clients, beneficial-
owner and occasional clients before or during the course of establishing a 
business relationship or conducting transactions for them.  
ii.  Capital Market Operators shall complete the verification of the identity of 
the clients and beneficial owner following the establishment of the 
business relationship, only when:  
a. This can take place as soon as reasonably practicable;  
b. It is essential not to interrupt the normal business conduct of the 
 clients; and  
c. The money laundering risks can be effectively managed.  
 
iii.    Examples of situations where it may be essential not to interrupt the 
normal conduct of business are:  
a. Securities transactions:  In the securities industry, companies  
and intermediaries may be required to perform transactions very 
rapidly, according to the market conditions at the time the clients is 
contacting them and the performance of the transaction may be 
required before verification of identity is completed.  
b.   Non face-to-face business. 
c.  Life insurance business in relation to identification and verification       
 of the beneficiary under the policy. This may take place after the 
 business relationship with the policy holder is established. 
In all such cases, identification and verification shall occur at or 
before the time of payout or the time when the beneficiary intends 
to exercise vested rights under the policy.  
iv. Where a client is permitted to utilize the business relationship prior to 
 verification, Capital Market Operators shall adopt risk management 
 procedures concerning the conditions under which this may occur. These 
 procedures include a set of measures such as a limitation of the number, 
 types and/or amount of transactions that can be performed and the 
 monitoring of large or complex transactions being carried out outside the 
 expected norms for that type of relationship.  
25	  
	   F. FAILURE TO COMPLETE CDD  
 i.  Every Capital Market Operator that does not comply with the 
 foregoing provisions shall:  
a. not be permitted to open the account, commence business  
  relations or perform the transaction; and  
b. Be required to render a suspicious transaction report to the  
  NFIU.  
 ii.  The Capital Market Operators that has already commenced the 
 business relationship shall terminate the business relationship and 
 render suspicious transaction reports to the NFIU.  
 
 G. EXISTING CLIENTS  
    i.  Capital Market Operators shall apply CDD requirements to   
    existing clients on the basis of materiality and risk and to continue  
    to conduct due diligence on such existing relationships at   
    appropriate times.  
 ii.      The appropriate time to conduct CDD by Capital Market   
          Operators Shall include when: 
a. a transaction of significant value takes place, 
b. clients documentation standards change substantially, 
c. there is a material change in the way that the account is  
  operated,  
d. the institution becomes aware that it lacks sufficient   
  information about an existing client.  
 iii. The Capital Market Operators shall properly identify the clients 
 in accordance with these criteria. The clients’ identification records 
 shall be made available to the AML/CFT compliance officer, other 
 appropriate staff and relevant authorities.  
     
 
26	  
	  3.  DEFINITION OF POLITICALLY EXPOSED PERSON (PEP)  
   a.   Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs) are individuals who are or have been 
entrusted with prominent public functions both in foreign countries as well as in 
Nigeria. Examples of PEPs include, but are not limited to;  
 (i) Heads of State or government;  
 (ii) Governors;  
 (iii) Local government chairmen;  
 (iv) Senior politicians;  
 (v) Senior government officials;  
 (vi) Judicial or military officials;  
 (vii) Senior executives of state owned corporations;  
 (viii) Important political party officials;  
 (ix) Family members or close associates of PEPs; and  
 (x) Members of Royal Families.  
   b. Capital Market Operators shall in addition to performing CDD measures, put in 
place appropriate risk management systems to determine whether a potential 
client or existing clients or the beneficial-owner is a politically exposed person.  
 
  c.  Capital Market Operators shall obtain senior management approval before they 
establish business relationships with PEPs and to render monthly returns on their 
transactions with PEPs to the NFIU.  
 
  d.  Where a client has been accepted or has an ongoing relationship with the Capital 
Market Operator and the client or beneficial-owner is subsequently found to be or 
becomes a PEP, the Capital Market Operator is required to obtain senior 
management approval in order to continue the business relationship.  
 
  e. Capital Market Operators shall take reasonable measures to establish the source 
of wealth and the sources of funds of clients and beneficial-owners identified as 
PEPs and report all anomalies immediately to the SEC and NFIU.  
 
27	  
	     f. Capital Market Operators in a business relationship with PEPs shall conduct 
enhanced ongoing monitoring of that relationship. In the event of any 
transaction that is abnormal, Capital Market Operators shall flag the account and 
report immediately to the NFIU.  
 
 4. NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND NON-FACE-TO-FACE TRANSACTIONS  
 
Capital Market Operators shall put in place: 
 
   a.    policies or take such measures as may be needed to prevent the misuse of 
technological developments in money laundering or terrorist financing schemes 
such as internationally accepted Credit or Debit Cards.  
 
   b.   policies and procedures to address any specific risks associated with non -face to 
face business relationships or transactions. These policies and procedures shall 
be applied automatically when establishing clients relationships and conducting 
ongoing due diligence.  
 
   c.    A Capital Market Operator that relies upon a third party shall immediately obtain 
the necessary information concerning property which has been laundered or 
which constitutes proceeds from, instrumentalities used in and intended for use 
in the commission of money laundering and financing of terrorism or other 
predicate offences. Such capital market operator shall satisfy itself that copies of 
identification data and other relevant documentation relating to the CDD 
requirements are made available by the third party upon request without delay.  
    d. The Capital Market Operator shall be satisfied that the third party is a regulated 
institution with measures in place to comply with requirements of CDD.  
 
5.  RELIANCE ON INTERMEDIARIES AND THIRD PARTIES ON CDD FUNCTIONS  
  a.   Capital Market Operators relying on intermediaries or other third parties which 
have no outsourcing or agency relationships, business relationships, accounts or 
transactions between Capital Market Operators for their clients shall perform 
some of the elements of the CDD process on the introduced business. The 
following criteria shall be met:  
 
   i.   Immediately obtain from the third party the necessary information 
concerning certain elements of the CDD process;  
28	  
	    ii. Take adequate steps to satisfy themselves that copies of identification 
data and other relevant documentation relating to CDD requirements will 
be made available by the third party upon request without delay;  
 iii. Satisfy themselves that the third party is regulated in accordance with  
Core Principles of AML/CFT and has measures in place to comply with the 
CDD requirements set out in this Manual; and  
  iv.    Make sure that adequate KYC provisions are applied to the third party in  
order to get account information for competent authorities.  
 
  b.  The ultimate responsibility for clients’ identification and verification remains with 
the Capital Market Operators relying on the third party.  
 
6. MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS ON TRANSACTIONS  
      Capital Market Operators shall; 
   a.  maintain all necessary records of transactions, both domestic and international, 
for at least five years following completion of the transaction (or longer if 
requested by the SEC and NFIU in specific cases). This requirement applies 
regardless of whether the account or business relationship is ongoing or has 
been terminated.  
   b. maintain records of the identification data, account files and business 
correspondence for at least five years following the termination of an account or 
business relationship (or longer if requested by the SEC and NFIU in specific 
cases).  
 
c.  ensure that all clients-transaction records and information are available on a 
timely basis to the SEC and NFIU. 
d.  Some of the necessary components of transaction-records to be kept include 
clients’ and beneficiary’s names, addresses (or other identifying information 
normally recorded by the intermediary), the nature and date of the transaction, 
the type and amount of currency involved, the type and identifying number of 
any account involved in the transaction.  
 
 
 
29	  
	  7. ATTENTION ON COMPLEX AND UNUSUAL LARGE TRANSACTIONS  
   a.  Capital Market Operators shall pay special attention to all complex, 
unusual large transactions or unusual patterns of transactions that have 
no apparent or visible economic or lawful purpose. Such transactions or 
patterns of transactions include: 
 
i) significant transactions relative to a relationship,  
ii) transactions that exceed certain limits, 
iii) very high account turnover inconsistent with the size of the account 
balance or 
iv) Transactions which fall out of the regular pattern of the account’s 
activity.  
    b. Capital Market Operators shall examine as far as possible the background 
and purpose for such transactions and set forth their findings in writing to 
the NFIU; such finding shall be kept available for SEC, NFIU, other 
relevant authorities and auditors for at least five years.  
8. COMPLIANCE, MONITORING AND RESPONSE TO SUSPICIOUS   
 TRANSACTIONS  
a. Institutional Policy  
        Every capital Market Operator shall; 
  i.   have a written policy framework that would guide and enable its 
staff to monitor, recognize and respond appropriately to suspicious 
transactions.  
 
 ii.     designate an officer appropriately as the AML/CFT Compliance 
Officer to supervise the monitoring and reporting of suspicious 
transactions.  
 
 iii. be alert to the various patterns of conduct that have been known 
to be suggestive of money laundering and maintain a checklist of 
such transactions which shall be disseminated to the relevant staff.  
 
30	  
	   iv.  When any staff of a Capital Market Operator detects any “red flag” 
or suspicious money laundering activity, the operator is required to 
promptly institute a “Review Panel” under the supervision of the 
AML/CFT Compliance Officer. Every action taken must be recorded. 
The operator and its staff shall maintain confidentiality in respect of 
such investigation and any suspicious transaction report that may 
be filed with the relevant authority.  
 
This action is, however, in compliance with the provisions of the 
money laundering law that criminalize “tipping off” (i.e. doing or 
saying anything that might tip off someone else that he is under 
suspicion of money laundering).  
 
 v.  A Capital Market Operator that suspects or has reason to suspect 
that funds are the Proceeds of a criminal activity or are related to 
terrorist financing shall report promptly its suspicions to the NFIU. 
All suspicious transactions, including attempted transactions are to 
be reported regardless of the amount involved. This requirement 
applies regardless of whether the transactions involve tax matters 
or other things.  
 
vi. Capital Market Operators, their directors, officers and employees 
(permanent and temporary) are prohibited from disclosing the fact 
that a report is required to be filed with the relevant authorities.  
 
  b. Internal controls, compliance and audit  
  i. Capital Market Operators shall establish and maintain internal 
procedures, policies and controls to prevent money laundering and 
financing of terrorism and to communicate these to their employees.  
These procedures, policies and controls shall cover the CDD, record 
retention, the detection of unusual and suspicious transactions, the 
reporting obligation, among other things.  
 ii. The AML/CFT compliance officer and appropriate staff shall have timely 
access to clients’ identification data, CDD information, transaction 
records and other relevant information.  
 
31	  
	   iii. Capital Market Operators shall develop programs against money 
laundering and terrorist financing which shall include:  
   a. The development of internal policies, procedures and  
 controls, including appropriate compliance management 
 arrangement and adequate screening procedures to ensure 
 high standards when hiring employees;  
 
      b.    An ongoing employee training program to ensure that  
  employees are kept informed of new developments,   
  including information on current ML and CFT techniques,  
  methods and trends; and that there is a clear explanation of  
  all aspects of AML/CFT laws and obligations, and in   
  particular, requirements concerning CDD and suspicious  
  transaction reporting; and  
 
            c.  Adequately resourced and independent audit function to test 
 compliance with the procedures, policies and controls.  
 
      iv.    A Capital Market Operator shall also put in place a structure that 
ensures the operational independence of the Compliance Officer 
(CCO).  
 
  9. SANCTIONS  
a. The sanctions provided hereunder are not only proportionate and 
dissuasive but also designed to affect legal persons/Capital Market 
Operators and their directors/senior management staff, depending on the 
requirements breached. Every Capital Market Operator who fails to comply 
or contravenes the provisions contained in this manual shall be subject to 
sanctions by the SEC and any other relevant authority.  
b. Any individual, being an official of a Capital Market Operator, who fails to 
take reasonable steps to ensure compliance with the provisions of this 
Manual, shall be sanctioned accordingly. For purpose of emphasis, 
incidence of false declaration or false disclosure by the Capital Market 
Operator or its officers shall be subject to administrative review and 
sanction as stipulated in this Manual.  
 
32	  
	  c. Any Capital Market Operator or its officer that contravenes the provisions 
of this Manual shall be subject to applicable sanctions by the SEC as 
follows:  
 i.   Against the Operator  
 a. Imposition of a penalty not exceeding N500,000 from the 
 first to the fifth instances on each offence; and  
 b. On the sixth instance, SEC shall set up an investigation  
   panel to:  
 i. examine the operator’s operations and identify the 
 role of the Board, Management and officers in respect 
 of the malpractice;  
   ii. recommend additional punishment on all officers that 
 are culpable; and  
   iii. recommend ways and means to stop the Capital 
 Market Operator from committing such malpractice 
 in future and this may include obtaining an 
 undertaking from the Capital Market Operator.  
ii. Against the Officers  
  Any person being a director, senior management, manager or 
 employee of a Capital Market Operator, either acting alone or in 
 partnership with others, contravenes the provisions of this Manual 
 under any circumstances shall be subject to any or all of the 
 following sanctions:  
 i. On the first two infraction, be warned in writing by the 
 operator and report to SEC;  
 ii. On the third infraction, the operator may consider 
 terminating employee’s appointment;  
 iii.  In each instance, the names of the officers penalized the 
 nature of the offence and the sanction imposed shall be  
  reported to SEC. 
 
33	  
	  10. SHELL BANKS  
   a. These are banks which have no physical presence in any country. Shell 
banks are prohibited from operating in Nigeria as provided in BOFIA (as 
amended – in view). Capital Market Operators are not allowed to establish 
correspondent relationships with high risk foreign banks (e.g. shell banks) 
with no physical presence in any country or with correspondent banks that 
permit their accounts to be used by such banks.  
   b.   Capital Market Operators shall take all necessary measures to satisfy 
themselves that correspondent Capital Market Operators in a foreign 
country do not permit their accounts to be used by shell banks.  
 
11. SUSPICIOUS TRANSACTIONS “RED FLAGS”  
  (a)   Potential Transactions Perceived or Identified as Suspicious  
i. Transactions involving high-risk countries vulnerable to money 
laundering, subject to this being confirmed.  
ii. Transactions involving shell companies.  
iii. Transactions with correspondents that have been identified as 
higher risk.  
iv. Large transaction activity involving monetary instruments such as 
traveler’s cheques, bank drafts, money order, particularly those 
that are serially numbered.  
v. Transaction activity involving amounts that are just below the 
stipulated reporting threshold or enquiries that appear to test an 
institution’s own internal monitoring threshold or controls.   
   (b)  Terrorist Financing “Red flags”  
i. Persons involved in a transaction share an address or phone 
number, particularly when the address is also a business location or 
does not seem to correspond to the stated occupation (e.g., 
student, unemployed, or self employed).  
ii. Securities transaction by a nonprofit or charitable organisation, for 
which there appears to be no logical economic purpose or for which 
34	  
	  there appears to be no link between the stated activity of the 
organisation and other parties in the transaction.  
iii. Large volume of securities transactions through a business account, 
where there appears to be no logical business or other economic 
purpose for the transfers, particularly when this activity involves 
designated high-risk locations.  
iv. The stated occupation of the clients is inconsistent with the type 
and level of account activity.  
v. Multiple personal and business accounts or the accounts of non 
profit organisations or charities that are used to collect and channel 
securities to a small number of foreign beneficiaries.  
(c)  Other Unusual or Suspicious Activities  
i. Employee exhibits a lavish lifestyle that cannot be justified by 
his/her salary.  
ii. Employee failure to comply with approved operating guidelines.  
iii. Employee is reluctant to take a vacation.   
  (d)  Other forms of reporting  
 Capital Market Operators shall report all securities transactions in any 
 currency above a threshold of N1, 000,000 for individual and N5, 000,000 
 for corporate person to the NFIU.  
12. ATTENTION FOR HIGHER RISK COUNTRIES  
  a. Capital Market Operators shall give special attention to business 
relationships and transactions with persons (including legal persons and 
other Capital Market Operators) from or in countries which do not or 
insufficiently apply the FATF recommendations.  
 b. Capital Market Operators shall report, as stated below, transactions that 
have no apparent economic or visible lawful purpose. The background and 
purpose of such transactions shall, as far as possible, be examined and 
written findings made available to assist competent authorities such as 
SEC, NFIU, auditors and law enforcement agencies (LEAs) to carry out 
their duties.  
35	  
	   c. Capital Market Operators that conduct business with foreign institutions 
which, do not continue to apply or insufficiently apply the provisions of 
FATF Recommendations, are required to take measures such as the 
following:  
i. Stringent requirements for identifying clients and enhancement of 
advisories, including jurisdiction-specific financial advisories to 
Capital Market Operators for identification of the beneficial owners 
before business relationships are established with individuals or 
companies from that jurisdiction;  
ii. Enhanced relevant reporting mechanisms or systematic reporting of 
cross border securities transactions on the basis that financial 
transactions with such countries are more likely to be suspicious;  
iii. In considering requests for approving the establishment in countries 
applying the countermeasure of subsidiaries or branches or 
representative offices of financial institutions, taking into account the 
fact that the relevant Capital Market Operator is from a country that 
does not have adequate AML/CFT systems;  
iv. Warning non-financial sector businesses that transactions with 
natural or legal persons within that country might run the risk of 
money laundering; limiting business relationships or financial 
transactions with the identified country or persons in that country. 
 
13. AML/CFT EMPLOYEE-EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAMME 
 Institutional Policy 
   a. Capital Market Operators shall design a comprehensive employee 
education and training programs not only to make employees fully aware 
of their obligations but also to equip them with relevant skills required for 
the effective discharge of their AML/CFT tasks.  
  b. The timing, coverage and content of the employee training program shall 
be tailored to meet the perceived needs of the Capital Market Operators.  
Capital Market Operators shall render quarterly returns on their level of 
compliance to the SEC and NFIU.  
36	  
	    c. The employee training programs are required to be developed under the 
guidance of the AML/CFT Compliance Officer in collaboration with the top 
Management. The basic elements of the employee training program are 
expected to include:  
i. AML regulations and offences  
ii. The nature of money laundering  
iii. Money laundering ‘red flags’ and suspicious transactions, including 
trade-based money laundering typologies  
iv. Reporting requirements  
v. Clients due diligence  
vi. Risk-based approach to AML/CFT  
vii. Record keeping and retention policy.  
  d. Capital Market Operators shall submit their Annual AML/CFT Employee 
training program to the SEC and NFIU not later than the 31st of 
December every financial year against the next year.	   
14. MONITORING OF EMPLOYEE CONDUCT  
Capital Market Operators shall monitor their employees’ accounts for potential 
signs of money laundering. They are also required to subject employees’ 
accounts to the same AML/CFT procedures as applicable to other clients’ 
accounts. This is required to be performed under the supervision of the AML/CFT 
Compliance Officer. The latter’s own account is to be reviewed by the Internal 
Auditor or a person of adequate/similar seniority. Compliance reports including 
findings are to be rendered to the SEC /NFIU.  
15.  PROTECTION OF STAFF WHO REPORT VIOLATIONS  
   a. Capital Market Operators shall direct their employees in writing to always 
co-operate fully with the Regulators and law enforcement agents and to 
promptly report suspicious transactions to them. They are also required to 
make it possible for employees to report any violations of the institution’s 
AML/CFT compliance program to the AML/CFT Compliance Officer. Where 
the violations involve the Compliance Officer, employees are required to 
report such to a designated higher authority such as the Internal Auditor.  
37	  
	    b. Capital Market Operators shall inform their employees in writing to make 
such reports confidential and that they will be protected from victimization 
for making them.  
 16.  ADDITIONAL AREAS OF AML/CFT RISKS  
  a. Capital Market Operators shall review, identify and record other areas of 
potential money laundering risks not covered by this Compliance Manual 
and report same quarterly to the NFIU.  
  b. Capital Market Operators shall review their AML/CFT frameworks from 
time to time with a view to determining their adequacy and identifying 
other areas of potential risks not covered by the AML/CFT Compliance 
Manual. 
17. ADDITIONAL PROCEDURES AND MITIGANTS  
Having reviewed the AML/CFT framework and identified new areas of potential 
money laundering vulnerabilities and risks, Capital Market Operators shall design 
additional procedures and mitigants as contingency plan in their AML/CFT 
Operational Manuals. These will provide how such potential risks will be 
appropriately managed if they crystallize. Details of the contingency plan are to 
be rendered to SEC and NFIU as at 31st December every financial year.  
18. TESTING FOR THE ADEQUACY OF THE AML/CFT COMPLIANCE  
Every Capital Market Operator shall make a policy commitment and to subject its 
AML/CFT Compliance Program to independent-testing or require its internal audit 
function to determine its adequacy, completeness and effectiveness. Report of 
compliance is required to be rendered to SEC and NFIU as 31st December every 
financial year. Any identified weaknesses or inadequacies shall be promptly 
addressed by the Capital Market Operator.  
 19. FORMAL BOARD APPROVAL OF THE AML/CFT COMPLIANCE  
The ultimate responsibility for AML/CFT compliance is placed on the Board/Top 
Management of every Capital Market Operator in Nigeria. It is, therefore, 
required that the Board ensures that a comprehensive operational AML/CFT 
Compliance Manual is formulated by Management and presented to the Board for 
consideration and formal approval. The Manual shall be forwarded to SEC and 
NFIU within six months of it release. Quarterly reports on the AML/CFT-
38	  
	  compliance status of the Capital Market Operator are to be presented to the 
Board for its information and necessary action.  
  20.   TERRORIST FINANCING OFFENCES 
a. Terrorist financing offences extend to any person who willfully provides or 
collects funds by any means, directly or indirectly, with the unlawful 
intention that they shall be used or in the knowledge that they are to be 
used in full or in part to carry out a terrorist act.  
b. Terrorist financing offences are extended to any funds whether from a 
legitimate or illegitimate source. Terrorist financing offences therefore do 
not necessarily require that the funds are actually used to carry out or 
attempt a terrorist-act or be linked to a specific terrorist-act. Attempt to 
finance terrorist/terrorism and to engage in any of the types of conduct as 
set out above is also an offence.  
c. Terrorist financing offences are predicate offences for money laundering 
and therefore apply, regardless of whether the person alleged to have 
committed the offence is in the same country or a different country from 
the one in which the terrorist/terrorist organization is located or the 
terrorist act occurred or will occur.  
  21.   CULTURE OF COMPLIANCE  
 Every Capital Market Operator shall have a comprehensive AML/CFT compliance 
program to guide its compliance efforts and to ensure the diligent 
implementation of its Manual.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39	  
	   PART C  
22. GUIDANCE ON KYC (Know your customer) 
 Capital Market Operators shall not establish a business relationship until all 
relevant parties to the relationship have been identified and the nature of the 
business they intend to conduct ascertained. Once an on-going business 
relationship is established, any inconsistent activity can then be examined to 
determine whether or not there is an element of money laundering for suspicion.  
 A.  Duty to Obtain Identification Evidence  
     i. Capital Market Operators shall be satisfied that a prospective 
 client is who he/she claim to be.  
   ii. If the client is acting on behalf of another (the funds are supplied 
 by someone else or the investment is to be held in the name of 
 someone else’s name) then the Capital Market Operator shall 
 verify the identity of both the clients and the agent/trustee unless 
 the client is itself a Nigerian regulated Capital Market Operator.  
   iii. Capital Market Operators shall obtain evidence in respect of  their 
 clients, unless it is otherwise stated in this manual.  
   iv.     Capital Market Operators shall identify all relevant parties to the 
 relationship from the outset by obtaining satisfactory identification 
 evidence as provided in this manual. 
 B.   Nature and Level of the Business  
   i. Capital Market Operators shall obtain sufficient information on the nature 
of the business that their client intends to undertake, including the 
expected or predictable pattern of transactions.  
The information collected at the outset for this purpose shall include:  
     a.   purpose and reason for opening the account or establishing the     
relationship;  
 b.   nature of the activity that is to be undertaken;  
 c.   expected origin of the funds to be used during the relationship; 
        and  
40	  
	   d. details of occupation/employment/business activities and 
 sources of wealth or income.  
ii. Capital Market Operators shall take reasonable steps to keep the 
information up to date as the opportunities arise, such as when an 
existing client opens a new account. Information obtained during any 
meeting, discussion or other communication with the clients shall be 
recorded and kept in the client’s file to ensure, as far as practicable, that 
current clients’ information is readily accessible to the Money Laundering 
Compliance Officers (MLCO) or relevant regulatory bodies.  
ii. Apply Commercial Judgment  
   a. Capital Market Operators shall take a risk-based approach to the 
‘Know Your Customer’ requirement and decide the number of times 
to verify the clients’ records during the relationship, the 
identification evidence required and when additional checks are 
necessary.  
  b. For personal account relationships, all joint-account holders need to 
be verified. In respect of private company or partnership, focus 
shall be on the principal owners/controllers and their identities shall 
also be verified.  
  c. The identification evidence collected at the outset shall be viewed 
against the inherent risks in the business or service.  
23. ESTABLISHING IDENTITY  
 A.  Identification Evidence  
   i. The client’s identification process shall not start and end at the 
 point of establishing the relationship but continue as far as the 
 business relationship subsists. The process of confirming and 
 updating identity and address, and the extent of obtaining 
 additional KYC information collected will however differ from one 
 type of Capital Market Operator to another.  
   ii. The general principles for establishing the identity of both legal and 
 natural persons and obtaining satisfactory identification evidence 
 set out in this Manual are by no means exhaustive. 
 
41	  
	   B.   What is Identity?  
  i. Identity generally means a set of attributes such as names used, 
 date of birth and the residential address at which the clients can be 
 located. These are features which can uniquely identify a natural or 
 legal person.  
   ii. In the case of a natural person, the date of birth is required to be 
 obtained as an important identifier in support of the name. It is, 
 however, not mandatory to verify the date of birth provided by the 
 clients.  
   iii. Where an international passport/national identity card is taken as 
 evidence of identity, the number, date and place/country of issue 
 (as well as expiring date in the case of international passport) are 
 required to be recorded. 
 C.   When Must Identity be Verified?  
   i. Identity shall be verified whenever a business relationship is to be 
 established, on account opening or during one-off transaction or 
 when series of linked transactions take place. “Transaction” in this 
 Manual is defined to include the giving of advice. The “advice” here 
 does not apply to when information is provided about the 
 availability of products or services nor applies to when a first 
 interview/discussion prior to establishing a relationship takes place.  
   ii. Once identification procedures have been satisfactorily completed 
 and the business relationship established, as long as contact or 
 activity is maintained and records concerning that clients are 
 complete and kept, no further evidence of identity is needed when 
 another transaction or activity is subsequently undertaken.   
 D.   Whose Identity Must Be Verified?  
   i. Clients - sufficient evidence of the identity must be obtained to 
 ascertain that the client is the very person he/she claims to be.  
   ii. a person acting on behalf of another - The obligation is to obtain 
 sufficient evidence of identities of the two persons involved.   
   iii. There is no obligation to look beyond the client where:  
42	  
	     a.  the latter is acting on its own account (rather than for 
   a specific client or group of clients); 
   b. a client is a bank, broker, fund manager or other  
   regulated Capital Market Operator,  financial   
   institutions; and  
   c. all the businesses are to be undertaken in the name  
   of a regulated Capital Market Operator or financial  
   institution.  
   iv. In other circumstances, unless the client is a regulated Capital 
 Market Operator or financial institution acting as agent on behalf 
 of one or more underlying client within Nigeria, and has given 
 written assurance that it has obtained the recorded-evidence of 
 identity to the required standards, identification evidence shall be 
 verified for:  
  a.  the named account holder/person in whose name an  
  investment is registered;  
  b. any principal beneficial owner of funds being invested 
  who is not the account holder or named investor;  
  c. the principal controller(s) of an account or business  
  relationship (i.e. those who regularly provide   
  instructions); and  
  d. any intermediate parties (e.g. where an account is  
  managed or owned by an intermediary).  
   v. Capital Market Operators shall take appropriate steps to 
 identify directors and all the signatories to an account.  
   vi. Joint applicants/account holders - identification evidence shall be    
 obtained for all the account holders.  
  vii. For higher risk business undertaken for private companies (i.e. 
 those not listed on the stock exchange) sufficient evidence of 
 identity and address shall be verified in respect of:  
  a. the principal underlying beneficial owner(s) of the  
  company with 5% interest and above; and  
43	  
	    b. Those with principal control over the company’s  
  assets (e.g.  principal controllers/directors).  
   viii. Capital Market Operators shall be alert to circumstances that 
 might indicate any significant changes in the nature of the business 
 or its ownership and make enquiries accordingly and to observe the 
 additional provisions for Higher Risk Categories of Clients under 
 AML/CFT Directive in this Manual.  
    ix. Trusts – Capital Market Operators shall obtain and verify the 
 identity of those providing funds for the Trust. They include the 
 settlor and those who are authorized to invest, transfer funds or 
 make decisions on behalf of the Trust such as the principal trustees 
 and controllers who have power to remove the Trustees.  
    x. Savings Schemes and Investments in Third Parties’ Names When  
  an investor sets up a savings accounts or a regular savings scheme 
  whereby the funds are supplied by one person for investment in  
  the name of  another (such as a spouse or a child), the person who 
  funds the subscription or makes deposits into the savings scheme  
  shall be regarded as the applicant for business for whom   
  identification evidence must be obtained in addition to the legal  
  owner.  
    xi. Personal Pension Schemes  
  a. Identification evidence must be obtained at the outset for all 
  investors, except personal pensions connected to a policy of  
  insurance taken out by virtue of a contract of employment or 
  pension scheme.  
  b. Personal pension advisers are charged with the responsibility 
  of obtaining the identification evidence on behalf of the  
  pension fund provider. Confirmation that identification  
  evidence has been taken  shall be given on the transfer of a 
  pension to another provider.  
  
 
 
44	  
	  E.  Timing of Identification Requirements  
i. An acceptable time-span for obtaining satisfactory evidence of identity will 
be determined by the nature of the business, the geographical location of 
the parties and whether it is possible to obtain the evidence before 
commitments are entered into or money changes hands. However, any 
occasion when business is conducted before satisfactory evidence of 
identity has been obtained must be exceptional and can only be those 
circumstances justified with regard to the risk.  
ii.  To this end, Capital Market Operators shall:  
   (a)  obtain identification evidence as soon as reasonably practicable 
after it has contact with a client with a view to agreeing with the 
client to carry out an initial transaction; or reaching an 
understanding (whether binding or not) with the client that it may 
carry out future transactions; and  
   (b)  Where the client does not supply the required information as 
stipulated in (a) above, the Capital Market Operator shall 
discontinue any activity it is conducting for the client; and bring to 
an end any understanding reached with the client.  
iii. Capital Market Operators shall observe the provision in the Timing of 
Verification under the AML/CFT Directive of this Manual.  
iv. A Capital Market Operator may however start processing the transaction 
or application immediately, provided that it:  
a. promptly takes appropriate steps to obtain identification 
evidence;  
b. Does not transfer or pay any money out to a third party until the 
identification requirements have been satisfied.  
v.  The failure or refusal by an applicant to provide satisfactory identification 
evidence within a reasonable time-frame without adequate explanation 
may lead to a suspicion that the depositor or investor is engaged in 
money laundering. The Capital Market Operator shall therefore make 
Suspicious transaction Reports to NFIU based on the information in its 
possession before the funds involved are returned to the potential client 
or where they came from.  
45	  
	  vi. Capital Market Operators shall put in place written and consistent policies 
of closing an account or unwinding a transaction where satisfactory 
evidence of identity cannot be obtained.  
vii. Capital Market Operators shall respond promptly to inquiries made by 
other persons relating to the identity of their clients.  
F. Cancellation & Cooling-Off Rights  
Where an investor exercises cancellation rights or cooling-off rights, the sum 
invested must be repaid subject to some deductions, where applicable. Since 
cancellation/cooling-off rights could offer a readily available route for laundering 
money, Capital Market Operators shall be alert to any abnormal exercise of these 
rights by an investor or in respect of business introduced through an 
intermediary. In the event where abnormal exercise of these rights becomes 
apparent, the matter shall be treated as suspicious and reported to NFIU. 
 
 G. Redemptions/Surrenders  
   i. When an investor finally realizes his investment (wholly or partially), if the 
amount payable is US$1,000 or above or its equivalent thereof; or 
N250,000 for an individual or N500,000 for a body corporate, or such 
other monetary amounts as may, from time to time, be stipulated by any 
applicable money laundering legislation or regulation, the identity of the 
investor must be verified and recorded if it had not been done previously.  
  ii. In the case of redemption or surrender of an investment (wholly or 
partially), a Capital Market Operator shall take reasonable measures to 
establish the identity of the investor where payment is made to:  
  a. the legal owner of the investment by means of a cheque crossed 
“account payee”; or  
  b. a bank account held (solely or jointly) in the name of the legal 
owner of the investment by any electronic means effective for 
transfer funds.   
 
 
 
46	  
	  24.  IDENTIFICATION PROCEDURES  
  A.  General Principles  
 i. A Capital Market Operator shall ensure that it is dealing with a real person 
or organization (natural, corporate or legal) by obtaining sufficient 
identification evidence. When reliance is being placed on a third party to 
identify or confirm the identity of an applicant, the overall responsibility 
for obtaining satisfactory identification evidence rests with the account 
holding Capital Market Operator.  
 ii. The requirement in all cases is to obtain satisfactory evidence that a 
person of that name lives at the address given and that the applicant is 
that person or that the company has identifiable owners and that its 
representatives can be located at the address provided.  
 iii.  Because no single form of identification can be fully guaranteed as 
genuine or representing correct identity, the identification processes shall 
be cumulative.  
 iv. The procedures adopted to verify the identity of private individuals and 
whether or not identification was done face to face or remotely and are 
required to be stated in the client’s file. The reasonable steps taken to 
avoid single, multiple fictitious applications or substitution (impersonation) 
fraud shall be stated by the Capital Market Operator in the client’s file. 
 v.  An introduction from a respected client, a person personally known to a 
Director or Manager or a member of staff often provides comfort but must 
not replace the need for identification evidence requirements to be 
complied with as set out in this Manual.  
 Details of the person who initiated and authorized the introduction shall 
be kept in the client’s mandate file along with other records. It is therefore 
mandatory that Directors/Senior Managers shall insist on following the 
prescribed identification procedures for every applicant.  
    B.   New Business for Existing Clients  
    i. When an existing client closes one account and opens another or enters 
into a new agreement to purchase products or services, there is no need 
to verify the identity or address of such a clients unless the name or the 
address provided does not tally with the information in the Capital Market 
47	  
	  Operator’s file. However, procedures shall be put in place to guard against 
impersonation and fraud. The opportunity of opening the new account 
shall also be taken to ask the client to confirm the relevant details and to 
provide any missing KYC information. This is particularly important:  
a. if there was an existing business relationship with the client and 
identification evidence had not previously been obtained; or  
b. if there had been no recent contact or correspondence with the 
client within the past three months; or  
c. when a previously dormant account is re -activated.  
ii. In the circumstances above, details of the previous account(s) and any 
identification evidence previously obtained or any introduction records 
shall be linked to the new account-records and retained for the prescribed 
period in accordance with the provision of this Manual.  
  C.   Certification of Identification Documents  
 i. In order to guard against the dangers of postal-interception and 
 fraud, prospective client shall not be asked to send by post 
 originals of their valuable personal identity documents such as 
 international passport, identity card, driving license, etc.  
 ii.  Where there is no face to face contact with the client and 
 documentary evidence is required, copies certified by a notary 
 public/court of competent jurisdiction, senior public servant or their 
 equivalent in the private sector shall be obtained. The person 
 undertaking the certification must be known and capable of being 
 contacted if necessary.  
 iii. In the case of foreign nationals, the copy of international passport, 
 national identity card or documentary evidence of his/her address 
 is required to be certified by:  
i. the embassy, consulate or high commission of the country of 
  issue;   
ii. a senior official within the account opening institution;   
iii. Notary public/court of competent jurisdiction 
48	  
	          iv. Certified copies of identification evidence are to be stamped, dated  
  and signed “original sighted by me” by a senior officer of the  
  Capital Market Operator. Capital Market Operators shall   
  always ensure that a good production of the photographic evidence 
  of identity is obtained. Where this is not possible, a copy of   
  evidence certified as providing a good likeness of the applicant  
  could only be acceptable in the interim.  
D.    Recording Identification Evidence  
i. Records of the supporting evidence and methods used to verify identity 
are required to be retained for a minimum period of five years after the 
account is closed or the business relationship ended.  
ii. Where the supporting evidence could not be copied at the time it was 
presented, the reference numbers and other relevant details of the 
identification evidence are required to be recorded to enable the 
documents to be obtained later. Confirmation is required to be provided 
that the original documents were seen by certifying either on the 
photocopies or on the record that the details were taken down as 
evidence.  
iii. Where checks are made electronically, a record of the actual information 
obtained or of where it can be re-obtained must be retained as part of the 
identification evidence. Such records will make the reproduction of the 
actual information that would have been obtained before, less 
cumbersome.  
  E. Concession in respect of Payment Made by Post. 
  i. Concession may be granted for product or services (where the money 
laundering risk is considered to be low) in respect of long-term life 
insurance business or purchase of personal investment products. If 
payment is to be made from an account held in the clients’ name (or 
jointly with one or more other persons) at a regulated Capital Market 
Operator, no further evidence of identity is necessary.  
  ii. Waiver of additional verification requirements for postal or electronic 
transactions does not apply to the following:  
49	  
	  a. products or accounts where funds can be transferred to other types 
of products or accounts which provide cheque or money transfer 
facilities;  
b. situations where funds can be repaid or transferred to a person 
other than the original clients;  
c. investments where the characteristics of the product or account 
may change subsequently to enable payments to be made to third 
parties.  
  iii. Postal concession is not an exemption from the requirement to obtain 
satisfactory evidence of a client’s identity. Payment debited from an 
account in the client’s name shall be capable of constituting the required 
identification evidence in its own right.  
  iv.  Records are required to be maintained indicating how a transaction 
arose, including details of the Capital Market Operator’s branch and 
account number from which the cheque or payment is drawn.  
 v. The concession can apply both where an application is made directly to 
the Capital Market Operator and where a payment is passed through a 
regulated intermediary.   
  vi.    Investment Funds:  
In circumstances where the balance in an investment funds account is 
transferred from one Funds Manager to another and the value at that time 
is above US$1,000 or N250,000 for an individual and N1 million for a body 
corporate and identification evidence has neither been taken nor 
confirmation obtained from the original Fund Manager, then such 
evidence shall be obtained at the time of the  transfer.  
25.      ESTABLISHING IDENTITY  
           Establishing identity under this Manual is divided into three broad categories:  
   a.  Private individual clients;  
   b.    Quasi corporate clients;  
   c.    Pure corporate clients.  
 
50	  
	     A.  Private Individual Clients  
         General Information:  
  i. The following information are to be established and    
  independently validated for all private individuals whose identities  
  need to be verified:  
     a.  The true full name(s) used; and  
     b. the permanent home address, including landmarks and 
 postcode, where available.  
  ii. The information obtained shall provide satisfaction that a person of 
 that name exists at the address given and that the applicant is that 
 person. Where an applicant has recently moved from a house, the 
 previous address shall be validated. 
  iii.  It is important to obtain the date of birth as it is required by the 
 law enforcement agencies. However, the information need not be 
 verified. It is also important for the residence/nationality of a client 
 to be ascertained to assist risk assessment procedures.   
  iv. A risk-based approach shall be adopted when obtaining 
 satisfactory evidence of identity. The extent and number of checks 
 can vary depending on the perceived risk of the service or business 
 sought and whether the application is made in person or through a 
 remote medium such as telephone, post or the internet. The source 
 of funds, how the payment was made, from where, and by whom 
 must always be recorded, to provide an audit trail. However, for 
 higher risk products, accounts or clients, additional steps shall be 
 taken  to ascertain the source of wealth/funds.  
  v. For lower-risk transactions or simple investment products, there is 
 an overriding requirement for the Capital Market Operator to 
 satisfy itself as to the identity and address of the client.	   
         1.   Private Individuals Resident in Nigeria  
  The confirmation of name and address is to be established by reference to 
  a number of sources. The checks shall be undertaken by cross-validation  
  that the applicant exists at the stated address either through the sighting  
  of actual documentary evidence or by undertaking electronic checks of  
51	  
	    suitable databases, or by a combination of the two. The overriding   
  requirement to ensure that the identification evidence is satisfactory rests  
  with the Capital Market Operator.  
       a. Documenting Evidence of Identity  
      i. In order to guard against forged or counterfeit-documents, care  
  shall  be taken to ensure that documents offered are originals.  
  Copies that are dated and signed ‘original seen’ by a senior public  
  servant or equivalent in a reputable private organization could be  
  accepted in  the interim, pending presentation of the original  
  documents.  Hereunder are examples of suitable documentary  
  evidence for Nigerian resident private individuals:  
    (a)     Personal Identity Documents  
           i.  Current International Passport  
           ii.  Residence Permit issued by the Immigration   
   Authorities  
           iii.  Current Driving Licence issued by the Federal Road 
 Safety Commission (FRSC)  
           iv.  Inland Revenue Tax Clearance Certificate  
         v.  Birth Certificate/Sworn Declaration of Age  
           vi.     National Identity card  
     (b)  Documentary Evidence of Address  
           i. Record of home visit in respect of non-Nigerians  
            ii.    Confirmation from the electoral register that a person 
 of that name lives at that address  
        iii. Recent utility bill (e.g. PHCN, NITEL, etc.)   
       iv.    Current driving licence issued by FRSC  
         v.    Bank statement or passbook containing current  
   address  
52	  
	              vi.   Solicitor’s letter confirming recent house purchase or 
 search report from the Land Registry  
  vii. Tenancy Agreement  
  ix.  Search reports on prospective client’s place of 
 employment and residence signed by a senior officer 
 of the Capital Market Operator.  
  2.  Checking of a local or national telephone directory can be used as  
  additional corroborative evidence but not as a primary check.  
               b. Physical Checks on Private Individuals Resident in Nigeria  
  i.   It shall be mandatory for a Capital Market Operator to  
  establish the true identities and addresses of its clients and  
  for effective checks to be carried out to guard against  
  substitution of identities by client.  
  ii. Additional confirmation of the clients’ identity and the fact  
  that the application was made by the person identified shall  
  be obtained through one or more of the following   
  procedures:  
   a.    a direct mailing of account opening documentation to  
  a named individual at  an independently verified  
  address;  
   b.    an initial deposit cheque drawn on a personal account 
  in the clients name by another Capital Market   
  Operator in Nigeria;  
   c.   telephone contact with the client prior to opening the  
  account on an independently verified home or   
  business number or a “welcome call” to the clients  
  before transactions are permitted, utilizing a minimum 
  of two pieces of personal identity information that  
  had been previously provided during the setting up of 
  the account;  
   d.  internet sign-on following verification procedures  
  where the clients uses security codes, tokens, and/or  
  other passwords which had been set up during  
53	  
	    account opening and provided by mail (or secure  
  delivery) to the named individual at an independently  
  verified address;  
   e.  card or account activation procedures.  
    iii.    Capital Market Operators shall ensure that additional   
  information concerning the nature and level of the business  
  to be  conducted and the origin of the funds to be used  
  within the relationship are also obtained from the clients.  
            c.   Electronic Checks  
   i. As an alternative or supplementary to documentary evidence 
  of identity and address, the clients identity, address and  
  other  available information may be checked electronically  
  by accessing  other data-bases or sources. Each source may  
  be used separately  as an alternative to one or more   
  documentary checks.  
  ii.   Capital Market Operators shall use a combination of   
  electronic and documentary checks to confirm different  
  sources of the same information provided by the clients.  
  iii.   In respect of electronic checks, confidence as to the   
  reliability of information supplied will be established by the  
  cumulative nature of checking across a range of sources,  
  preferably covering a period of time or through qualitative  
  checks that assess the validity of the information supplied.  
  The number or quality of checks to be undertaken will vary  
  depending on the diversity as well as the breath and depth  
  of information available from each source. Verification that t 
  he client is the data-subject also needs to be conducted  
  within the checking process.  
  iv.  Some examples of suitable electronic sources of information  
    are as follows:  
    a.  An electronic search of the Electoral Register (is not  
  to be  used as a sole identity and address check);  
    b.  Access to internal or external account database; and  
54	  
	      c.  An electronic search of public records, where   
    available.   
  v.   Capital Market Operator shall put in place internal   
  procedures for the identification of socially but    
  financially disadvantage persons. 
  vi. Where a Capital Market Operator has reasonable grounds  
  to conclude that an individual client is not able to produce  
  the detailed evidence of his identity and cannot reasonably  
  be expected to do so, the Operator may accept as   
  identification evidence a letter or statement from a person in 
  a position of responsibility such as solicitors, doctors,   
  ministers of religion and teachers who know the client,  
  confirming that the client is who he says he is, and his  
  permanent address.  
  vii. When a Capital Market Operator has decided to treat a  
  client as “financially excluded”, it is required to record the  
  reasons for doing so along with the account opening   
  documents and returns rendered to the SEC and NFIU  
  quarterly.  
viii. where a letter/statement is accepted from a professional 
 person, it shall   include a telephone number where the 
 person can be contacted for verification. The Capital 
 Market Operator shall verify from an independent source 
 the information provided by the professional person.  
ix.  In order to guard against “financial exclusion” and to   
  minimize the use of the exception procedure, Capital   
  Market Operators shall include in their internal    
  procedures the “alternative documentary evidence of   
  personal identity and address” that can be accepted.  
x.   Capital Market Operators shall put in place additional   
  monitoring for accounts opened under the financial exclusion 
  exception procedures to ensure that such accounts are not       
  misused. 
 
55	  
	  2.  A. Private Individuals not resident in Nigeria  
 i.    For those prospective clients who are not resident in Nigeria but 
 who make face -to- face contact, international passports or national 
 identity cards shall generally be available as evidence of the name 
 of the clients.  
 Reference numbers, date and country of issue shall be obtained 
 and the information recorded in the clients’s file as part of the 
 identification evidence.  
 ii.  Capital Market Operators shall obtain separate evidence of the 
 applicant’s permanent residential address from the best available 
 evidence, preferably from an official source. A “P.O. Box number” 
 alone is not accepted as evidence of address. The applicant’s 
 residential address shall be such that it can be physically located.  
 iii.   Relevant evidence shall be obtained by the Capital Market 
 Operator directly from the clients or through a reputable credit or 
 Capital Market Operator in the applicant’s home country or 
 country of residence. However, particular care shall be taken when 
 relying on identification evidence provided from other countries. 
 Capital Market Operators shall ensure that the client’s true 
 identity and current permanent address are actually confirmed. In 
 such cases, copies of relevant identity documents shall be sought 
 and retained.  
 iv.   Where a foreign national has recently arrived in Nigeria, reference 
 might be made to his/her employer, university, evidence of 
 traveling documents, etc. to verify the applicant’s identity and 
 residential address.  
 B. Private Individuals not Resident in Nigeria: Supply of Information  
 i.  For a private individual not resident in Nigeria, who wishes to 
 supply documentary information by post, telephone or electronic 
 means, a risk-based approach shall be taken. The Capital Market 
 Operator shall obtain one separate item of evidence of identity in 
 respect of the name of the clients and one separate item for the 
 address.  
 ii.  Documentary evidence of name and address can be obtained:  
56	  
	      a.  by way of original documentary evidence supplied by the 
 clients;   
    b.  by way of a certified copy of the client’s passport or 
 national identity card and a separate certified document 
 verifying address e.g. a driving licence, utility bill, etc; or  
    c.  through a branch, subsidiary, head office of a correspondent 
  bank.  
 iii.  Where the client does not already have a business relationship with 
 the foreign Capital Market Operator that is supplying the 
 information, certified copies of relevant underlying documentary 
 evidence must be sought, obtained and retained by the institutions.  
 iv.   Where necessary, an additional comfort must be obtained by 
 confirming the clients’ true name, address and date of birth from a 
 reputable institution in the clients’ home country.  
3. Information to establish identity  
a.  Natural Persons  
For natural persons the following information shall be obtained, where 
applicable:  
i. Legal name and any other names used (such as maiden name);  
ii. Correct permanent address (full address shall be obtained and a 
Post Office box number is not sufficient);  
iii. Telephone number, fax number, and e-mail address;  
iv. Date and place of birth;  
v. Nationality;  
vi. Occupation, public position held and name of employer;  
vii. An official personal identification number or other unique identifier 
contained in an unexpired official document such as passport, 
identification card, residence permit, social security records or 
driving  licence that bears a photograph of the clients;  
viii. Signature.  
57	  
	  A Capital Market Operator shall verify this information by at least one of the 
following methods:  
   (a) Confirming the date of birth from an official document (e.g. birth 
certificate, passport, identity card, social security records);  
  (b) Confirming the permanent address (e.g. utility bill, tax assessment, bank 
statement, a letter from a public authority);  
  (c) Contacting the clients by telephone, by letter or e-mail to confirm the 
information supplied after an account has been opened (e.g. a 
disconnected phone, returned mail, or incorrect e-mail address shall 
warrant further investigation);  
  (d) Confirming the validity of the official documentation provided through 
certification by an authorized person (e.g. embassy official, notary public).  
  (e)  Such other documents of an equivalent nature may be produced as 
satisfactory  evidence of clients' identity.  
  (f)  The Capital Market Operators shall apply effective client identification 
 procedures for non-face-to-face client as for those available physically.  
 From the information provided, Capital Market Operators shall be able 
 to make an initial assessment of a client’s risk profile. Particular attention 
 needs to be focused on those clients identified as having a higher risk 
 profile. Additional inquiries made or information obtained in respect of 
 those clients shall include the following:  
  (i) Evidence of an individual's permanent address sought through a 
 credit reference agency search, or through independent verification 
 by home visits;  
  (ii) Personal reference (i.e. by an existing client of the same   
  institution);  
 (iii) prior client bank reference and contact with the bank regarding the 
  client;  
  (iv)  Source of wealth;  
 (v) Verification of employment, public position held (where   
  appropriate).  
58	  
	  The client acceptance policy shall not be so restrictive to amount to a 
denial of access by the general public to Securities transactions, especially 
for people who are financially or socially disadvantaged.  
b. Institutions  
The term institution includes any entity that is not a natural person. In 
considering the clients identification guidance for the different types of 
institutions, particular attention shall be given to the different levels of risk 
involved.  
 i.  Corporate Entities  
 For corporate entities (i.e. corporations and partnerships), the 
 following information shall be obtained:  
 (a) Name of institution;  
  (b) Principal place of institution's business operations;  
  (c) Mailing address of institution;  
  (d) Contact telephone and fax numbers;  
 (e) Some form of official identification number, if available (e.g. 
 Tax identification number);  
 (f) The original or certified copy of the Certificate of 
 Incorporation and Memorandum and Articles of Association;  
 (g) The resolution of the Board of Directors to open an account 
 and identification of those who have authority to operate the 
 account;  
  (h) Nature and purpose of business and its legitimacy.  
   ii.  A Capital Market Operator shall verify this information by at   
   least one of the following methods:  
 a. For established corporate entities -reviewing a copy of the 
 latest report and accounts (audited, if available);  
 b. Conducting an enquiry by a business information service or 
 an undertaking from a reputable and known firm of lawyers 
 or accountants confirming the documents submitted;  
59	  
	   c. Undertaking a company search and/or other commercial 
 enquiries to see that the institution has not been, or is not in 
 the process of being dissolved, struck off, wound up or 
 terminated;  
 d. Utilizing an independent information verification process, 
 such as accessing public and private databases;  
 e. Obtaining prior bank references;  
   f. Visiting the corporate entity,; and  
   g. Contacting the corporate entity by telephone, mail or e-mail.  
 The Capital Market Operators shall also take reasonable steps 
 to verify the identity and reputation of any agent that opens an 
 account on behalf of corporate clients, if that agent is not an officer 
 of the corporate client.  
       iii.  Corporations/Partnerships  
a. For corporations/partnerships, the principal guidance is to look 
 behind the Operator to identify those who have control over the 
 business and the company's/partnership's assets, including those 
 who have ultimate control.  
b. For corporations, particular attention shall be paid to shareholders, 
 signatories, or others who inject a significant proportion of capital 
 or financial support or otherwise exercise control. Where the owner 
 is another Capital Market Operator or trust, the objective is to 
 undertake reasonable measures to look behind that company or 
 entity and to verify the identity of the principals.  
c. What constitutes control for this purpose will depend on the nature 
 of a company, and may rest in those who are mandated to manage 
 the funds, accounts or investments without requiring further 
 authorisation, and who would be in a position to override internal 
 procedures and control mechanisms.  
d. For partnerships, each partner shall be identified and it is also 
 important to identify immediate family members that have 
 ownership control.  
60	  
	  e. Where a company is listed on a recognised securities exchange or 
 is a subsidiary of such a company then the company itself may be 
 considered to be the principal to be identified.  However, 
 consideration shall be given to whether there is effective control of 
 a listed company by an individual, small group of individuals or 
 another corporate entity or trust. If this is the case then those 
 controllers shall also be considered to be principals and identified 
 accordingly.  
 c.  Other Types of Operators  
 i.  The following information shall be obtained in addition to that  
  required to verify the identity of the principals in respect of   
  Retirement Benefit  Programmes, Mutuals/Friendly Societies,  
  Cooperatives and Provident Societies, Charities, Clubs and   
  Associations, Trusts and Foundations and Professional   
  Intermediaries:  
   (a) Name of account;  
   (b) Mailing address;  
   (c) Contact telephone and fax numbers;  
  (d) Some form of official identification number, such as tax  
  identification number;  
  (e) Description of the purpose/activities of the account holder as 
  stated in a formal constitution; and  
  (f)     Copy of documentation confirming the legal existence of the  
   account holder such as register of charities.  
 ii.  A Capital Market Operator shall verify this information by at   
  least one of the following:  
  (a) Obtaining an independent undertaking from a legal   
  practitioner or chartered Accountant confirming the   
  documents submitted;  
   (b) Obtaining prior bank references; and  
   (c) Accessing public and private databases or official sources.  
61	  
	   iii  Retirement Benefit Programmes  
 Where an occupational pension programme, employee benefit trust 
 or share option plan is an applicant for an account the trustee and 
 any other person who has control over the relationship such as the 
 administrator, programme manager, and account signatories shall 
 be considered as principals and the capital Market Operator  shall 
 take  steps to verify their identities.  
 iv  Mutual/Friendly, Cooperative and Provident Societies  
 Where these entities are client the principals to be identified shall 
 be considered to be those persons exercising control or significant 
 influence over the organisation's assets. This often includes Board 
 members, executives and account signatories.  
 v  Charities, Clubs and Associations  
 In the case of accounts to be opened for charities, clubs, and 
 societies, the Capital Market Operators shall take reasonable  steps 
 to identify and verify at least two signatories along with the 
 operator itself. The principals who shall be identified shall be 
 considered to be those persons exercising control or significant 
 influence over the organization’s assets.  
 This includes members of the governing body or committee, the 
 President, Board members, the Treasurer, and all signatories.  
 In all cases, independent verification shall be obtained that the 
 persons involved are true representatives of the operators.   
 vi. Trusts and Foundations  
 When opening an account for a Trust, the Capital Market 
 Operator shall take reasonable steps to verify the trustees, the 
 settlor (including any persons settling assets into the trust) any 
 protector, beneficiary and signatories. Beneficiaries shall be 
 identified when they are defined. In the case of a foundation, steps 
 shall be taken to verify the founder, the managers/directors and 
 the beneficiaries.  
 
62	  
	   vii. Professional Intermediaries  
 When a professional intermediary opens a client account on behalf 
 of a single client, that client must be identified. Professional 
 intermediaries will often open "pooled" accounts on behalf of a 
 number of entities. Where funds held by the intermediary are not 
 co-mingled but where there are "sub-accounts" which can be 
 attributable to each beneficial owner, all beneficial owners of the 
 account held by the intermediary shall be identified. Where the 
 funds are co-mingled, the Capital Market Operator shall look 
 through to the beneficial-owners. However, there may be 
 circumstances that Capital Market Operator may not look 
 beyond the intermediary (e.g. when the intermediary is subject to 
 the same due diligence standards in respect of its client base as the 
 Capital Market Operator).  
        viii.      Where such circumstances apply and an account is opened for an  
   open or closed ended investment company (unit trust or limited  
   partnership) also subject to the same due diligence standards in  
   respect of its client base as the Capital Market Operator, the   
   following shall be considered as principals and the Capital Market  
   Operator shall take steps to identify them:  
 (a)  The fund itself;  
   (b) Its directors or any controlling board (where it is a company)  
   (c) Its Trustee (where it is a Unit Trust) 
   (d) Its managing (general) partner (where it is a limited   
    partnership)  
   (e) Account signatories;  
 (f) Any other person who has control over the relationship such 
 as fund administrator or manager.  
        (ix)   Where other investment vehicles are involved, the same steps shall  
 be taken as in above (where it is appropriate to do so). In addition,  
 all reasonable steps shall be taken to verify the identity of the   
 beneficial owners of the funds and of those who have control over   
 the funds.  
63	  
	            (x)  Intermediaries shall be treated as individual clients of the Capital  
   Market Operator and the standing of the intermediary shall be  
   separately verified by obtaining the appropriate information   
   itemized above.  
 4.    Non Face-to-Face Identification  
   i.   In view of possible false identities and impersonations that may 
 arise with non face-to-face clients, additional measures/checks 
 shall be undertaken to supplement the documentary or electronic 
 evidence.  
 These additional measures/checks will apply whether the applicant 
 is resident in Nigeria or elsewhere and shall be particularly robust 
 where the applicant is requiring a margin facility or other 
 product/service that offers money transmission or third party 
 payments.  
  ii.   Procedures to identify and authenticate the client shall be put in 
 place to ensure that there is sufficient evidence either 
 documentary or electronic to confirm his address and personal 
 identity and to undertake at least one additional check to guard 
 against impersonation and fraud.  
  iii.   The extent of the identification evidence required will depend on 
 the nature and characteristics of the product or service and the 
 assessed risk.  
a. If reliance is being placed on intermediaries to undertake the 
  processing of applications on the client behalf, checks shall  
  be undertaken to ensure that the intermediary are regulated 
  for money laundering prevention and that the relevant  
  identification procedures are applied. In all cases, evidence  
  as to how identity has been verified shall be obtained and  
  retained with the account opening records. 
b. Capital Market Operators shall conduct regular    
  monitoring of internet-based business/clients. If a significant 
  proportion of the business is operated electronically,   
  computerized monitoring systems /solutions that are   
  designed to recognize unusual transactions and related  
  patterns of transactions shall be put in place to recognize  
64	  
	    suspicious transactions. AML/CFT compliance officers are  
  required to review these solutions, record exemptions and  
  report same quarterly to the SEC and NFIU.  
   5. Establishing Identity for Refugees and Asylum Seekers  
 i. A refugee and asylum seeker may require a basic account without 
 being able to provide evidence of identity. In such circumstances, 
 authentic references from Ministry of Internal Affairs or an 
 appropriate government agency shall be used in conjunction with 
 other readily available evidence.  
 ii.   Additional monitoring procedures shall however be undertaken to 
 ensure that the use of the account is consistent with the client 
 circumstances and returns rendered quarterly to NFIU.  
6.    Establishing Identity for Students and Minors  
 i.   When opening accounts for students or other young persons, the 
 normal identification procedures set out in this Manual shall be 
 followed as far as possible. Where such procedures would not be 
 relevant or do not provide satisfactory identification evidence, 
 verification could be obtained:  
 a.  via the home address of the parent(s); or  
 b.   by obtaining confirmation of the applicant’s address from 
 his/her institution of learning; or  
 c.  by seeking evidence of a tenancy agreement or student 
 accommodation contract.  
ii.  Often, an account for a minor will be opened by a family member 
 or guardian. In cases where the adult opening the account does 
 not already have an account with the Capital Market Operator, 
 the identification evidence for that adult, or of any other person 
 who will operate the account shall be obtained in addition to 
 obtaining the birth certificate or passport of the child. It shall be 
 noted that this type of account could be open to abuse and 
 therefore strict monitoring shall be undertaken, and reports made 
 and rendered quarterly to NFIU.  
65	  
	  iii.    For accounts opened through a school-related scheme, the school 
 shall be asked to provide the date of birth and permanent address 
 of the pupil and to complete the standard account opening 
 documentation on behalf of the pupil.  
B. Quasi Corporate Clients  
       1. Establishing Identity - Trust, Nominees and Fiduciaries  
a. Trusts, nominee companies and fiduciaries are popular vehicles for   
criminals wishing to avoid the identification procedures and mask 
the origin of the criminal money they wish to launder. The 
particular characteristics of Trust that attract the genuine clients, 
the anonymity and complexity of structures that they can provide 
are also highly attractive to money launderers.   
b.   Identification and “Know Your Business” procedures shall be set 
and managed according to the perceived risk, in trust, nominees 
and fiduciaries accounts.  
c.   The principal objective for money laundering prevention via trusts, 
nominees and fiduciaries is to verify the identity of the provider of 
funds such as the settlor, those who have control over the funds 
(the trustees and any controller who have the power to remove the 
trustees). For discretionary or offshore Trust, the nature and 
purpose of the Trust and the original source of funding must be 
ascertained.  
d.   Whilst reliance can often be placed on other Capital Market 
Operators that are to undertake the checks or confirm identity, the 
responsibility to ensure that this is undertaken rests with the 
Capital Market Operator. The underlying evidence of identity must 
be made available to law enforcement agencies in the event of an 
investigation.  
e.   Identification requirements must be obtained and not waived for 
any trustee who does not have authority to operate an account and 
cannot give relevant instructions concerning the use or transfer of 
funds.  
 
66	  
	  2. Offshore Trusts  
a.  Offshore Trusts present a higher money laundering risk and 
therefore additional measures are needed for Special Purpose 
Vehicles (SPVs) or International Business Companies connected to 
Trusts, particularly when Trusts are set up in offshore locations 
with strict bank secrecy or confidentiality rules. Those created in 
jurisdictions without equivalent money laundering procedures in 
place shall warrant additional enquiries.  
b.   Unless the client for business is itself a regulated Capital Market 
Operator, measures shall be taken to identify the Trust company or 
the corporate service provider in line with the requirements for 
professional intermediaries or companies generally.  
c.  Certified copies of the documentary evidence of identity for the 
underlying principals such as settlors, controllers, etc. on whose 
behalf the client for business is acting, shall also be obtained.  
d.   For overseas Trusts, nominee and fiduciary accounts, where the 
client is itself a Capital Market Operator that is regulated for money 
laundering purposes:  
i.  reliance can be placed on an introduction or intermediary 
certificate letter stating that evidence of identity exists for all 
underlying principals and confirming that there are no 
anonymous principals;  
ii. the trustees/nominees shall be asked to state from the 
outset the capacity in which they are operating or making 
the application;  
iii. documentary evidence of the appointment of the current 
Trustees shall also be obtained.  
e.  Where the underlying evidence is not retained within Nigeria, 
enquiries shall be made to determine, as far as practicable, that 
there are no overriding bank secrecy or confidentiality constraints 
that will restrict access to the documentary evidence of identity, 
shall it be needed in Nigeria.  
67	  
	  f.  Any application to open an account or undertake a transaction on 
behalf of another without the client identifying their Trust or 
Nominee capacity shall be regarded as suspicious and shall lead to 
further enquiries and rendition of reports to SEC and NFIU.  
g. Where a Capital Market Operator in Nigeria is itself the client to an 
offshore Trust on behalf of its clients, if the corporate Trustees are 
not regulated, then the Nigerian Capital Market Operator shall 
undertake the due diligence on the Trust itself.  
h.  If the funds have been drawn upon an account that is not under 
 the control of the Trustees, the identity of two of the authorized 
 signatories and their authority to operate the account shall also be 
 verified. When the identities of beneficiaries have not previously 
 been verified, verification shall be undertaken when payments are 
 made to them.  
3. Conventional Family and Absolute Nigerian Trusts  
a. In the case of conventional Nigerian Trusts, identification evidence 
shall be obtained for:  
i. those who have control over the funds (the principal 
trustees who may include the settlor);   
ii.  the providers of the funds (the settlors, except where they 
are deceased);   
iii. Where the settlor is deceased, written confirmation shall be 
obtained for the source of funds (grant of probate or copy of 
the Will or other document creating the Trust).  
b. Where a corporate Trustee such as a bank acts jointly with a co-
Trustee, any non-regulated co -Trustees shall be verified even if 
the corporate Trustee is covered by an exemption. The relevant 
guidance contained in this Manual for verifying the identity of 
persons, institutions or companies shall be followed.  
c.  Although a Capital Market Operator may not review any existing 
Trust, confirmation of the settlor and the appointment of any 
additional Trustees shall be obtained.  
68	  
	  d.  Copies of any underlying documentary evidence shall be certified as 
true copies. In addition, a check shall be carried out to ensure that 
any bank account on which the Trustees have drawn funds is in 
their names. Taking a risk based approach, consideration shall be 
given as to whether the identity of any additional authorized 
signatories to the account shall also be verified.  
e.       It is a normal practice for payment of any trust property to be made 
to all the Trustees. As a matter of practice, some life assurance 
companies make payments directly to beneficiaries on receiving a 
request from the Trustees. In such circumstances, the payment 
shall be made to the named beneficiary by way of a crossed 
cheque marked “account payee only” or a bank transfer direct to 
an account in the name of the beneficiary.  
4. Receipt and Payment of Funds  
a.  Where money is received on behalf of a Trust, reasonable steps 
shall be taken to ensure that:  
i.  the source of the funds is properly identified; and  
ii.   the nature of the transaction or instruction is understood.  
b.   It is also important to ensure that payments are properly 
authorized in writing by the Trustees. 
c.  Identification of New Trustees  
Where a Trustee who has been verified is replaced, the identity of 
the new Trustee shall be verified before he/she is allowed to 
exercise control over the funds. 
d.   Life Policies Placed in Trust  
Where a life policy is placed in Trust, the client for the policy is also 
a Trustee and where the Trustees have no beneficial interest in the 
funds, it shall only be necessary to verify the identity of the person 
applying for the policy. The remainder of the Trustees would 
however need to be identified in a situation where policy proceeds 
were being paid to a third party not identified in the trust deed.  
 
69	  
	  e.    Powers of Attorney and Third Party Mandates  
(a)   The authority to deal with assets under a Power of Attorney 
and Third Party Mandates constitutes a business 
relationship. Consequently, at the start of the relationship, 
identification evidence shall be obtained from the holders of 
powers of attorney and third party mandates in addition to 
the clients or subsequently on a later appointment of a new 
attorney, if advised, particularly within one year of the start 
of the business relationship. New attorney for corporate or 
Trust business shall always be verified. The most important 
requirement is for Capital Market Operator to ascertain the 
reason for the grant of the power of attorney.  
(b)   Records of all transactions undertaken in accordance with 
the Power of Attorney shall be maintained as part of the 
client’s record.  
v. Executorship accounts  
  a.   When an account is opened for the purpose of winding up the 
estate of a deceased person, the identity of the executor 
/administrator of the estate shall be verified.  
  b.   However, identification evidence would not normally be required for 
the executors/administrators when payment is being made from an 
established bank or mortgage institution’s account in the 
deceased’s name, solely for the purpose of winding up the estate in 
accordance with the Grant of Probate or Letters of Administration. 
Similarly, where a life policy pays out on death, there shall be no 
need to obtain identification evidence for the legal representatives.  
  c.  Payments to the underlying named beneficiaries on the instructions 
of the executor or administrator may also be made without 
additional verification requirements. However, if a beneficiary 
wishes to transact business in his/her own name, then identification 
evidence shall be required. 
                     d.     In the event that suspicion is aroused concerning the nature or  
   origin of assets comprising an estate that is being wound up,   
   report is required to be rendered to NFIU.  
70	  
	  vi. Unincorporated Business/Partnerships  
 a. Where the client is an un-incorporated business or a partnership 
whose principal partners/controllers do not already have a business 
relationship with the Capital Market Operators, identification 
evidence shall be obtained for the principal beneficial 
owners/controllers. This would also entail identifying one or more 
signatories in whom significant control has been vested by the 
principal beneficial owners/controllers.  
 b.  Evidence of the trading address of the business or partnership shall 
be obtained.  
 c.  The nature of the business or partnership shall be ascertained (but 
not necessarily verified from a partnership deed) to ensure that it 
has a legitimate purpose. Where a formal partnership arrangement 
exists, a mandate from the partnership authorizing the opening of 
an account or undertaking the transaction and conferring authority 
on those who will undertake transactions shall be obtained  
 
C. Pure Corporate Clients  
1.  General Principles  
a.  Complex organizations and their structures, other corporate and 
legal entities are the most likely vehicles for money laundering. 
Those that are privately owned are being fronted by legitimate 
trading companies. Care shall be taken to verify the legal existence 
of the client company from official documents or sources and to 
ensure that persons purporting to act on its behalf are fully 
authorized.  
Enquiries shall be made to confirm that the legal person is not 
merely a “brass-plate company” where the controlling principals 
cannot be identified.  
b.  The identity of a corporate company comprises:  
i. registration number;  
ii.  registered corporate name and any trading names used;  
71	  
	  iii. registered address and any separate principal trading 
addresses;  
iv.   particulars of directors;  
v. owners and shareholders; and  
vi. the nature of the company’s business.  
c. The extent of identification measures required to validate this 
information or the documentary evidence to be obtained depends 
on the nature of the business or service that the company requires 
from the Capital Market Operator. A risk-based approach shall be 
taken. In all cases, information as to the nature of the normal 
business activities that the company expects to undertake with the 
Capital Market Operator shall be obtained. Before a business 
relationship is established, measures shall be taken by way of 
company search at the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) and 
other commercial enquiries undertaken to check that the clients-
company’s legal existence has not been or is not in the process of 
being dissolved, struck off, wound up or terminated.  
2. Non Face-to-Face Business  
i. As with the requirements for private individuals, because of the 
additional risks with non face-to-face business, additional 
procedures shall be undertaken to ensure that the client business, 
company or society exists at the address provided and it is for a 
legitimate purpose.  
ii.  Where the characteristics of the product or service permit, care 
shall be taken to ensure that relevant evidence is obtained to 
confirm that any individual representing the company has the 
necessary authority to do so.  
iii. Where the principal owners, controllers or signatories need to be 
identified within the relationship, the relevant requirements for the 
identification of personal clients shall be followed.  
 
 
72	  
	  3. Low Risk Corporate Business  
a. Public Quoted Companies  
 i. Corporate clients that are listed on the securities 
 exchange are considered to be publicly owned and generally 
 accountable. Consequently, there is no need to verify the 
 identity of the individual shareholders.  
 ii. it is not necessary to identify the directors of a quoted 
 company. 
 iii.   Capital Market Operators shall ensure that the individual 
 officer or employee (past or present) is not using the name 
 of the company or its relationship with the Capital Market 
 Operator for a criminal purpose. The Board Resolution or 
 other authority for any representative to act on behalf of the 
 company in its dealings with the Capital Market Operator 
 shall be obtained to confirm that the individual has the 
 authority to act. Phone calls can be made to the Chief 
 Executive Officer of such a company to intimate him of the 
 application to open the account with the capital Market 
 Operator.  
 iv. No further steps shall be taken to verify identity over and 
 above the usual commercial checks where the applicant 
 company is:  
 a. Listed on a securities exchange; or  
 b.    there is independent evidence to show that it is a 
 wholly owned subsidiary or a subsidiary under the 
 control of such a company.  
 v. Due diligence shall be conducted where the account or 
 service required falls within the category of higher risk 
 business.  
 b. Private /Public unquoted Companies  
 i. Where the client is a private/public unquoted company 
 and none of the principal directors or shareholders already 
 have an account with the Capital Market Operator, the 
73	  
	   following documents shall be obtained from an official or 
 recognized independent source to verify the business itself:  
 a. a copy of the certificate of incorporation/registration, 
 evidence of the company’s registered address and the 
 list of shareholders and directors;  
 b.   a search at the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) 
 or an enquiry via a business information service to 
 obtain the information in (a) above; and  
 c.    an undertaking from a firm of lawyers or accountants 
 confirming the documents submitted to the Capital 
 Market Operator.  
 ii. Attention shall be paid to the place of origin of the   
  documents and the background against which they were  
  produced. If comparable documents cannot be obtained,  
  then verification of principal beneficial owners/controllers  
  shall be undertaken.  
 4.  Higher Risk Business Relating to Private/Public unquoted   
  Companies  
 i. For private/public unquoted Companies undertaking  higher 
 risk business (in addition to verifying the legal  existence of 
 the business) the principal requirement is to  look behind 
 the corporate entity to identify those who have 
 ultimate control over the business and the company’s assets. 
 What constitutes significant shareholding or control for this 
 purpose will depend on the nature of the company. 
 Identification evidence is required to be obtained for those 
 shareholders with interests of 5% or more.  
 ii.   The principal control rests with those who are mandated to  
  manage the funds, accounts or investments without   
  requiring authorization and who would be in a position to  
  override internal procedures and control mechanisms.  
 iii.   Identification evidence shall be obtained for the principal-
 beneficial owner(s) of the company and any other person 
 with principal control over the company’s assets. Where the 
74	  
	   principal owner is another corporate entity or Trust, the 
 objective is to undertake measures that look behind that 
 company or vehicle and verify the identity of the beneficial-
 owner(s) or settlors. When a Capital Market Operator 
 becomes aware that the principal-beneficial 
 owners/controllers have changed, they shall ensure that the 
 identities of the new ones are verified.  
 iv.   Capital Market Operators shall identify directors who are 
 not principal controllers and signatories to an account for 
 risk based approach purpose.  
 v.   where there is  suspicion as a result of change in the nature 
 of the business transacted or investment account, further 
 checks shall be made to ascertain the reason for the 
 changes .  
 vi.   Particular care shall be taken to ensure that full identification 
 and “Know Your Clients” requirements are met if the 
 company is an International Business Company (IBC) 
 registered in an offshore jurisdiction. 
5. Foreign Capital Market Operator  
 i. For foreign Capital Market Operators, the confirmation of 
 existence and regulated status shall be checked by one of 
 the following means:  
 a. checking with the home country’s Securities Market 
 Regulator or relevant supervisory body;  
 b. checking with another office, subsidiary or branch in 
 the same country;  
 c.     checking with the Nigerian regulated correspondent 
 Capital Market Operator of the overseas  Operator;   
 d. obtaining evidence of its license or authorization to 
 conduct Securities business from the Operator  itself.  
 ii. In addition to the identity of the Principal Employer, the 
 source of funding shall be verified and recorded to ensure 
75	  
	   that a complete audit trail exists if the employer is dissolved 
 or wound up. 
 iii.   For the Trustees of Occupational Pension Schemes, 
 satisfactory identification evidence can be based on the 
 inspection of formal documents concerning the Trust which 
 confirm the names of the current Trustees and their 
 addresses for correspondence.  In addition to the 
 documents, confirming the trust identification can be based 
 on extracts from Public Registrars or references from 
 Professional Advisers or Investment Managers. 
 iv.   Any payment of benefits by or on behalf of the Trustees of 
 an Occupational Pension Scheme shall require verification of 
 identity of the recipient. 
 v.    Where individual members of an Occupation Pension   
  Scheme are to be given personal investment advice, their  
  identities shall be verified.   
 vi.  where the Trustees and Principal Employer have been  
  satisfactorily  identified (and the information is still current) it 
  may be appropriate  for the Employer to provide confirmation 
  of the identity of individual employees.  
     6. Other Institutions  
A. Charities in Nigeria 
 i. Adherence to the identification procedures required for money 
 laundering prevention purpose would remove the opportunities 
 for opening unauthorised accounts with false identities on behalf 
 of charities.  Confirmation of the  authority to act in the name of 
 the charity is mandatory. 
 ii.  The practice of opening unauthorised accounts of this type  under 
 sole control is strongly discouraged. Accounts for charities in 
 Nigeria are required to be operated by a minimum of two 
 signatories duly verified and documentation evidence obtained. 
 
 
76	  
	  B. Registered Charities 
i.  When dealing with an application from a registered charity,  the 
Capital Market Operator shall obtain and confirm the name and 
address of the charity concerned. 
ii. To guard against the laundering of fraudulently obtained funds 
(where the person making the application or undertaking the 
transaction is not the official correspondent or the recorded 
alternate) a Capital Market Operator is required to send a letter to 
the official correspondence, informing him of the schemes 
application before it.  The  official correspondence shall be 
requested to respond as a  matter of urgency especially where 
there is any reason to suggest that the application has been made 
without authority. 
iii. Applications on behalf of unregistered charities shall be dealt with 
in accordance with procedures for clubs and societies set out in 
these Rules. 
 C. Clubs and Societies  
i. In the case of applications made on behalf of clubs or societies, a 
Capital Market Operator shall take reasonable steps to satisfy itself 
as to the legitimate purpose of the organisation by sighting its 
constitution. The identity of at least two of the principal contact 
persons or signatories shall be verified initially in line with the 
requirements for private individuals. The signing authorities shall be 
structured to ensure that at least two of the signatories that 
authorize any transaction has been verified. When signatories 
change, Capital Market Operators shall ensure that the identities of 
at least two of the current signatories are verified.  
ii.  Where the purpose of the club or society is to purchase the shares 
of regulated investment company or where all the members would 
be regarded as individual clients, all the members in such cases are 
required to be identified in line with the requirements for personal 
clients.  
iii.  Capital Market Operators are required to look at each situation on a 
case –by case basis.  
77	  
	  D.  Occupational Pension Schemes  
  In all transactions undertaken on behalf of an Occupational Pension  
  Scheme where the transaction is not in relation to a long term   
  policy of insurance, the identities of both the Principal Employer   
  and the Trust are required to be verified.  
E.        Religious Organizations (ROs) 
A religious organisation is expected by law to be registered by the 
Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) and shall therefore have a registered 
number.  Its identity can be verified by reference to the CAC, appropriate 
headquarters or regional area of the denomination.  As a Registered 
organisation, the identity of a least two signatories to its account shall be 
verified. 
F. Three-Tiers of Government/Parastatals 
Where the client for business is any of the above, the Capital Market 
Operator shall verify the legal standing of the applicant, including its 
principal ownership and the address.   A certified copy of the Resolution or 
other documents authorizing the opening of the account or   to undertake 
the transaction shall be obtained in addition to evidence that the official 
representing the body has the relevant authority to act. Telephone 
contacts shall also be made with the Chief Executive Officer of the 
organisation/parastatals concerned, intimating him of the application to 
open the account with the Capital Market Operator.  
G. Foreign Consulates  
The authenticity of clients that request to undertake transactions with 
Capital Market Operators in the name of Nigerian-resident foreign 
consulates and any documents of authorization presented in support of 
the application shall be checked with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the 
relevant authorities in the Consulate’s home country.  
 
 
 
78	  
	  26.  INTERMEDIARIES OR OTHER THIRD PARTIES TO VERIFY IDENTITY OR TO   
INTRODUCE BUSINESS  
A. Who to rely upon and the circumstances  
Whilst the responsibility to obtain satisfactory identification evidence rests 
with the Capital Market Operator that is entering into the relationship with 
a client, it is reasonable, in a number of circumstances, for reliance to be 
placed on another Capital Market Operator to:  
i. undertake the identification procedure when introducing a clients 
and to obtain any additional KYC information from the client; or  
ii.    confirm the identification details if the clients is not resident in 
Nigeria; or  
iii. confirm that the verification of identity has been carried out (if an 
agent is acting for underlying principals ).  
B. Introductions from Authorised Financial Intermediaries  
i.  Where an intermediary introduces a client and then withdraws from 
 the ensuing relationship altogether, then the underlying clients has 
 become the applicant for the business. He shall be identified in line 
 with the requirements for personal, corporate or business clients as 
 appropriate.  
ii.  An introduction letter shall be issued by the introducing Capital 
 Market Operator or person in respect of each applicant for 
 business. To ensure that product-providers meet their obligations, 
 that satisfactory identification evidence has been obtained and will 
 be retained for the necessary statutory period, each introduction 
 letter shall either be accompanied by certified copies of the 
 identification evidence that has been obtained in line with the usual 
 practice of certification of identification documents or by sufficient 
 details/reference numbers, etc that will permit the actual evidence 
 obtained to be re-obtained at a later stage.  
C. Written Applications  
   For a written application (unless other arrangements have been agreed 
that the service provider will verify the identity itself) an intermediary shall 
provide along with each application, the clients’s introduction letter 
79	  
	  together with certified copies of the evidence of identity which shall be 
placed in the clients’ file.  
D. Non-Written Application  
Unit Trust Managers and other product providers receiving non-written 
applications from financial intermediaries (where a deal is placed over the 
telephone or by other electronic means) have an obligation to verify the 
identity of clients and ensure that the intermediary provides specific 
confirmation that identity has been verified. A record shall be made of the 
answers given by the intermediary and retained for a minimum period of 
five years.  
E. Introductions from Foreign Intermediaries  
Where introduced business is received from a regulated financial 
intermediary who is outside Nigeria, the reliance that can be placed on 
that intermediary to undertake the verification of identity-check shall be 
assessed by the Compliance officer or some other competent persons 
within the Capital Market Operator on a case by case basis based on the 
knowledge of the intermediary.  
F. Corporate Group Introductions  
i. Where a client is introduced by one part of a financial sector group 
to another, it is not necessary for identity to be re-verified or for 
the records to be duplicated provided that:  
a. the identity of the clients has been verified by the 
introducing parent company, branch, subsidiary or associate 
in line with the money laundering requirements to equivalent 
standards and taking account of any specific requirements 
such as separate address verification;  
b. no exemptions or concessions have been applied in the 
original verification procedures that would not be available 
to the new relationship;  
c. a group introduction letter is obtained and placed with the 
clients’ account opening records; and  
d. in respect of group introducers from outside Nigeria, 
arrangements shall be put in place to ensure that identity is 
80	  
	  verified in accordance with requirements and that the 
underlying records of identity in respect of introduced clients 
are retained for the necessary period.  
ii. Where a Capital Market Operator have day-to-day access to all the 
Group’s “Know Your Customer” information and records, there is 
no need to identify an introduced clients or obtain a group 
introduction letter if the identity of that clients has been verified 
previously. However, if the identity of the clients has not previously 
been verified, then any missing identification evidence will need to 
be obtained and a risk-based approach taken on the extent of KYC 
information that is available on whether or not additional 
information shall be obtained.  
iii. Capital Market Operators shall ensure that there is no secrecy or 
data protection legislation that would restrict free access to the 
records on request or by law enforcement agencies under court 
order or relevant mutual assistance procedures. If it is found that 
such restrictions apply, copies of the underlying records of identity 
shall, wherever possible, be sought and retained.  
iv. Where identification records are held outside Nigeria, it shall be the 
responsibility of the Capital Market Operators to ensure that the 
records available do, in fact, meet the requirements in this Manual.  
G. Business Conducted by Agents  
i. Where an applicant is dealing in its own name as agent for its own 
client, a Capital Market Operator shall, in addition to verifying the 
agent, establish the identity of the underlying client.  
ii.   A Capital Market Operator may regard evidence as sufficient if it 
has established that the client:  
a. is bound by and has observed this Manual or the provisions 
of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, as amended; and  
b.    is acting on behalf of another person and has given a written 
assurance that he has obtained and recorded evidence of 
the identity of the person on whose behalf he is acting.  
81	  
	  iii.    Consequently, where another Capital Market Operator deals with its 
own client (regardless of whether or not the underlying client is 
disclosed to the Capital Market Operator) then:  
a. where the agent is a Capital Market Operator, there is no 
requirement to establish the identity of the underlying clients 
or to obtain any form of written confirmation from the agent 
concerning the due diligence undertaken on its underlying 
clients; or  
b. where a regulated agent from outside Nigeria deals through 
a clients omnibus account or for a named clients through a 
designated account, the agent shall provide a written 
assurance that the identity of all the underlying clients has 
been verified in accordance with their local requirements.  
c. Where such an assurance cannot be obtained, then the 
business shall not be undertaken.  
          d.  In circumstances where an agent is either unregulated or is 
 not covered by the relevant money laundering legislation, 
 then each case shall be treated on its own merits. The 
 knowledge of the agent will inform the type of the due 
 diligence standards to apply.   
 
H. Correspondent Relationship  
i. Transactions conducted through correspondent relationships need 
to be managed, taking a risk-based approach. “Know Your 
Correspondent” procedures are required to be established to 
ascertain whether or not the correspondent Capital Market 
Operator or the counter-party is itself regulated for money 
laundering prevention. If regulated, the correspondent, Capital 
Market Operator is required to verify the identity of its clients in 
accordance with FATF-standards.  Where this is not the case, 
additional due diligence will be required to ascertain and assess the 
correspondent Capital Market Operator internal policy on money 
laundering prevention and know your clients procedures.  
82	  
	  ii. The volume and nature of transactions flowing through 
correspondent accounts with Capital Market Operator from high risk 
jurisdictions or those with inadequacies or material deficiencies 
shall be monitored against expected levels, destinations and any 
material variances shall be checked.  
iii. Capital Market Operators shall maintain records of having ensured 
that sufficient due diligence has been undertaken by the remitting 
bank on the underlying client and the origin of the funds in respect 
of the funds passed through their accounts.  
iv. Capital Market Operators shall guard against establishing 
correspondent relationships with high risk foreign banks (e.g. shell 
banks with no physical presence in any country) or with 
correspondent banks that permit their accounts to be used by such 
banks.  
I. Acquisition of One Capital Market Operator/Business By Another  
i. When one Capital Market Operator acquires the business and 
accounts of another Capital Market Operator, it is not necessary for 
the identity of all the existing clients to be re-identified, provided 
that all the underlying clients’ records are acquired with the 
business. It is, however, important to carry out due diligence 
enquiries to confirm that the acquired operator had conformed with 
the requirements in this Manual.  
ii. Verification of identity shall be undertaken as soon as it is 
practicable for all the transferred clients who were not verified by 
the transferor in line with the requirements for existing clients that 
open new accounts, where:  
a. the money laundering procedures previously undertaken 
have not been in accordance with the requirements of this 
Manual;  
            b.      the procedures cannot be checked; or  
c. the clients-records are not available to the acquiring Capital 
Market Operator.  
 
83	  
	  27. RECEIVING CAPITAL MARKET OPERATORS AND AGENTS  
A. Vulnerability of Receiving Bankers and Agents to Money 
Laundering  
Receiving Capital Market Operators may be used by money launderers in 
respect of offers for sale where new issues are over-subscribed and their 
allocation is scaled down. In addition, the money launderer is not 
concerned if there is a cost involved in laundering criminal money. New 
issues that trade at a discount will, therefore, still prove acceptable to the 
money launderer. Criminal funds can be laundered by way of the true 
beneficial-owner of the funds providing the payment for an application in 
another person’s name, specifically to avoid the verification process and to 
break the audit trail with the underlying crime from which the funds are 
derived.  
 B.      Who shall be identified?  
i. Receiving Capital Market Operators shall obtain satisfactory 
identification evidence of new applicants, including such applicants 
in a rights issue where the value of a single transaction or a series 
of linked transactions is US$1,000 or its equivalent for foreign 
transfers or N250,000 for individuals and N500,0000 for corporate 
body or more.  
ii. If funds to be invested are being supplied by or on behalf of a third 
party, it is important that the identification evidence for both the 
applicant and the provider of the funds are obtained to ensure that 
the audit trail for the funds is preserved.  
C.      Applications Received via Brokers  
i. Where the application is submitted (payment made) by a broker or 
an intermediary acting as agent, no steps need be taken to verify 
the identity of the underlying applicants. However, the following 
standard procedures apply:  
a. The lodging agent’s stamp shall be affixed on the application 
form or allotment letter; and  
84	  
	  b. Application/acceptance forms and cover letters submitted by 
lodging agents shall be identified and recorded in the Capital 
Market Operator’s records.  
ii. The terms and conditions of the issue shall state that any 
requirements to obtain identification evidence are the responsibility 
of the broker lodging the application and not the receiving Capital 
Market Operator.  
iii. Where the original application has been submitted by a regulated 
broker, no additional identification evidence will be necessary for 
subsequent calls in respect of shares issued and partly paid.  
D. Applications Received from Foreign Brokers  
If the broker or other introducer is a regulated person or institution 
(including an overseas branch or subsidiary) from a country with 
equivalent legislation and financial sector procedures, and the broker or 
introducer is subject to anti-money laundering rules or regulations, then a 
written assurance can be taken from the broker that he/she has obtained 
and recorded evidence of identity of any principal and underlying 
beneficial owner that is introduced.  
E. Multiple Family Applications  
i. Where multiple family applications are received supported by one 
cheque and the aggregate subscription price is US$1,000 or its 
equivalent for foreign transfers; and N250,000 or more for an 
individual person, then identification evidence will not be required 
for:  
a. a spouse or any other person whose surname and address 
are the same as those of the applicant who has signed the 
cheque;  
            b.      a joint account holder; or  
c. an application in the name of a child where the relevant 
company’s Articles of Association prohibit the registration in 
the names of minors and the shares are to be registered 
with the name of the family member of full age on whose 
85	  
	  account the cheque is drawn and who has signed the 
application form.  
ii. However, identification evidence of the signatory of the financial 
instrument will be required for any multiple family application for 
more than US$1,000 or its equivalent for foreign transfers; or more 
than N250, 000 for an individual; or more than N500, 000 for a 
body corporate where such is supported by a cheque signed by 
someone whose name differs from that of the applicant.  Other 
monetary amounts or more may, from time to time, be stipulated 
by any applicable money laundering legislation/guidelines.  
iii. Where an application is supported by a financial institution’s branch 
cheque or brokers’ draft, the applicant shall state the name and 
account number from which the funds were drawn:  
           a.     on the front of the cheque; or  
           b.     on the back of the cheque together with a branch stamp; or  
           c..    providing other supporting documents.  
F. Linked Transactions  
i. If it appears to a person handling applications that a number of 
single applications under US$1,000 and N500, 000 in different 
names are linked (e.g. payments from the same Capital Market 
Operator account) apart from the multiple family applications 
above, identification evidence shall be obtained in respect of parties 
involved in each single transaction.  
ii. Installment payment issues shall be treated as linked transactions 
where it is known that total payments will amount to US$1,000 or 
its equivalent for foreign transfers or N250,000 for an individual; or 
N500,0000 for body corporate or such other monetary amounts as 
may, from time to time, be stipulated by any applicable money 
laundering legislation or guidelines. Either at the outset or when a 
particular point has been reached, identification evidence shall be 
obtained.  
v. Applications that are believed to be linked and money laundering is 
suspected shall be processed on a separate batch for investigation 
86	  
	  after allotment and registration has been completed. Returns with 
the documentary evidence are to be rendered to the NFIU 
accordingly.  Copies of the supporting cheques, application forms 
and any repayment-cheques shall be retained to provide an audit 
trail until the receiving Capital Market Operator is informed by NFIU 
or the investigating officer that the records are of no further 
interest.   
 
28.      EXEMPTION FROM IDENTIFICATION PROCEDURES  
Where a client’s identity was not properly obtained as contained in this Manual 
and Requirements for Account Opening Procedure, Capital Market Operators 
shall re-establish the client’s identity in line with the contents of this Manual, 
except where it concerns:  
i. Nigerian Capital Market Operators  
Identification evidence is not required where the client for business is a 
Nigerian Capital Market Operator or person covered and regulated by the 
requirements of this Manual.  
ii. One-off Cash Transaction (Remittances, Wire Transfers, etc) 
 Cash remittances and wire transfers (either inward or outward) or other 
monetary instruments that are undertaken against payment in cash for 
clients who do not have an account or other established relationship with 
the Capital Market Operator (i.e. walk –in clients) present a high risk for 
money laundering purposes. It is therefore required that adequate 
procedures are established to record the transaction and relevant 
identification evidence taken, where necessary. Where such transactions 
form a regular part of the Capital Market Operator’s business, the limits 
for requiring identification evidence of US $1,000 or its equivalent for 
foreign transfers; N250,000 for individual and N500,000 for a corporate 
body must, however, be observed.  
iii. Re-investment of Income  
The proceeds of a one-off transaction can be paid to a client or be further 
re-invested where records of his identification requirements were obtained 
and kept. In the absence of this his/her identification requirements shall 
87	  
	  be obtained before the proceeds are paid to him or be re-invested on his 
behalf in accordance with the relevant provision of this Manual.  
 
29. SANCTIONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH KYC  
Failure to comply with the provisions contained in this Manual will attract 
appropriate sanction in accordance with Money Laundering Act/Combating 
Financing Terrorism laws and as detailed in the Anti Money Laundering 
Act/Combating Financing Terrorism section of this Manual.  
 
 
th
 MADE AT ABUJA THIS 28 DAY OF JULY 2010. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	  
88	  
	  